
Baccalaureate Degrees and
Undergraduate Studies
Admission Procedures and Policies
Requirements for admission to California State University, Dominguez
Hills are in accordance with Title 5, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3, of the
California Code of Regulations. Complete information is available on the
California State University website (https://www2.calstate.edu/).
All CSU applications must be submitted online on the Cal State Apply
website (https://www2.calstate.edu/apply/). An acknowledgement will
be sent to the applicant when the online application has been submitted.
IMPORTANCE OF FILING COMPLETE, ACCURATE AND AUTHENTIC
APPLICATION DOCUMENTS
CSU Dominguez Hills advises prospective students that they must supply
complete and accurate information on the application for admission,
residency questionnaire and financial aid forms. Further, applicants
must, when requested, submit authentic and official transcripts of all
previous academic work attempted. Failure to file complete, accurate
and authentic application documents may result in denial of admission,
cancellation of registration or academic credit, suspension or expulsion
(Section 41301, Article 1.1, Title 5, California Code of Regulations).
Undergraduate Application Procedures
Prospective students applying for part-time or full-time undergraduate
programs of study must submit a completed undergraduate application.
The $70 nonrefundable application fee should be paid online at the time
of application via credit card or PayPal and may not be transferred or
used to apply to another term. An alternate major may be requested on
the application if desired by the university. The applications of persons
denied admission to an impacted university may be redirected to another
university at no cost, but only if the applicant is CSU eligible. Before
applying for admission to California State University, Dominguez Hills,
students should carefully study the list of academic majors and their
descriptions.
Impacted Programs
The CSU designates programs as impacted when more applications
from regularly eligible applicants are received in the initial filing period
(October and November for fall terms, June for winter terms, August for
spring terms, February for summer terms) than can be accommodated.
Some programs are impacted at every university which they are offered;
others are impacted only at a few universities.
Candidates for admission must meet all of the university's specified
supplementary admission criteria if applying to an impacted program or
university.
The CSU will announce during the fall filing period those CSUs or
programs that are impacted. Detailed information on university and
program impaction is available on the Access & Impaction Website
(https://www.calstate.edu/attend/impaction-at-the-csu/).
Each university will communicate supplementary admission criteria
for all impacted programs to high schools and community colleges
in their application service area and will disseminate this information
to the public through appropriate media. This information will also
96 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
be published on the CSU Dominguez Hills website at www.csudh.edu
(https://www.csudh.edu/).
Applicants must file applications for admission to an impacted program
during the initial filing period. Applicants who wish to be considered for
impacted programs at more than one CSU should file an application at
each university for which they seek admission consideration.
Supplementary Admission Criteria
Each university with impacted programs or class-level admission
categories uses supplementary admission criteria in screening
applicants. Supplementary criteria may include rank-ordering of freshman
applicants based on the combination of student's "A-G" GPA and
supplemental factors or rank-ordering of transfer applicants based on
verification of the Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) or Associate in
Science Transfer (AS-T) degrees, the overall transfer grade point average
(GPA), completion of specified prerequisite courses and a combination
of campus-developed criteria. Applicants for freshman admission to
impacted universities or programs may need to have a higher "a-g" GPA.
In no case will standardized test scores be utilized in making freshman
admission decisions.
The supplementary admission criteria used by individual CSUs to screen
applicants are made available by the universities to all applicants seeking
admission to an impacted program.
Pre-admission Advising
Pre-admission advisors are available to aid students in the application
process. Questions about admission requirements, transfer of previous
course work, application deadlines and related questions should be
directed to University Outreach and School Relations located at WH
D-245, (310) 243-3696. For additional information regarding advisement,
see the section on "Academic Advisement."
Applying for Admission
1. Applicants must submit the completed Application for Admission,
showing social security number, evidence of residence as defined
in the application booklet, and all supporting documents (official
transcripts and test scores).
2. An official transcript of record from the high school of graduation is
required for new freshmen and transfer students with fewer than 60
transferable semester units completed.
3. An official transcript is required from each college or university
attended, if any.
4. The Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) is required for all
applicants, regardless of citizenship, who have not attended schools
full time at the secondary level or above for at least three years where
English is the principal language of instruction.
5. Applicants must complete the admission file within the campus
deadlines. Contact the University Outreach and Information Services
Center for current deadlines. Late applicants will be charged a Late
Application Processing fee.
Reservation
The University reserves the right to select its students and deny
admission to the University or any of its programs as the University, in its
sole discretion, determines appropriate based on an applicant’s suitability
and the best interests of the University.
Readmission of Former Students
Continuing Student Status
Students may elect to be absent for one semester without losing catalog
rights or eligibility for re-registration, subject to the following conditions:
A registration appointment time will not be assigned to scholastically
disqualified students following their most recent semester of attendance
at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Students who attend another college or university during an absence
from CSU Dominguez Hills must file an application for admission as a
returning student and must have official transcripts of work attempted
sent to the Office of Admissions. A nonrefundable application fee is
required. Students who use the Intrasystem Visitor Program do not have
to file a new application.
Undergraduate students who graduate from CSU Dominguez Hills and
wish to continue as graduate students must file a graduate application
for admission. An application fee is required. Late applicants will be
charged an additional late application processing fee.
Returning Students
Undergraduate students who have been absent for two semesters or
more prior to the semester of return must apply for readmission, unless
approved for and participating in the Planned Educational Leave program,
as described later in this section of the catalog.
Students who attend another institution during any absence from CSU
Dominguez Hills must file an application for admission as a returning
student and are subject to the non-refundable application fee.
Returning students who have not maintained continuing student status
or been approved for the Planned Educational Leave Program will lose
their catalog rights and will be subject to all requirements and regulations
in the catalog of the year they are readmitted.
Undergraduate students previously enrolled at the University are not
required to file a new application for admission and pay an application
fee unless they are absent from the University for two semesters or more
or have attended another institution during their absence. Graduate
students must reapply if they are absent for one term.
Former Students in Good Standing
A student who left the University in good standing will be readmitted
provided any academic work attempted elsewhere does not change his/
her scholastic status. Transcripts of any work attempted in the interim
are required.
Former Students on academic notice
A student on academic notice at the close of the last semester of
enrollment may be readmitted on academic notice provided he/she is
otherwise eligible. The student must have official transcripts of any
college work attempted during their absence sent to the University.
Readmission of Disqualified Students
The readmission of a previously disqualified student is by special
action only. The University normally will not consider a student for
readmission until the student has not attended for one semester and
until she/he has fulfilled all recommended conditions. In every instance,
readmission action is based upon evidence that the causes of previous
low achievement have been removed. The evidence includes transcripts
of work completed elsewhere subsequent to disqualification and other
objective evidence. A request for readmission must be filed in order
for a student to be considered for readmission. Formerly disqualified
2024-25 University Catalog 97
undergraduate students who are interested in being reinstated should
contact the University Advisement Center (310-243-3538) for information
regarding the process to request readmission as an undergraduate
student at California State University, Dominguez Hills.
Cancellation of Admission
Admission to the University is for a specific semester. Students who do
not register for that semester will have their admission cancelled. When
seeking admission at a future date, students must file a new application
form, follow the complete application procedure, and meet the current
admission requirements. Transcripts on file will be retained for one year.
Application Filing Periods
(Not all universities/programs are open for admission to every term.)
Terms Applications First
Accepted
Initial Filing Period
Summer Semester1
February 1 February 1-28
Fall Semester October 1 October 1-November 30
Winter June 1 June 1-30
Spring Semester August 1 August 1-30
1 Note: Most CSUs do not admit students to Summer term.
Late Fee: A late admissions application fee of $15.00 will be charged
after the Fall deadline of November 30th, the Spring deadline of August
30th and the Summer deadline of March 1st.
Filing Period Duration: Each non-impacted university accepts
applications until capacities are reached. Many universities limit
undergraduate admission in an enrollment category due to overall
enrollment limits. If applying after the initial filing period, consult the
university admission office for current information.
High School Students
High school students may be considered for enrollment in certain special
programs if recommended by the principal and the appropriate campus
department chair and if preparation is equivalent to that required of
eligible California high school graduates. Such admission is only for
a given specific program and does not constitute a right to continued
enrollment.
Application Acknowledgment
On-time applicants may expect to receive an email acknowledgment
from the universities to which they have applied within two to four
weeks of filing the application. The notice may also include a request
that applicants submit additional records necessary to evaluate
academic qualifications. Applicants may be assured of admission if
the evaluation of relevant qualifications indicates that applicants meet
CSU admission requirements, and in the case of admission impaction,
supplemental criteria for admission to an impacted program. Unless
specific written approval/confirmation is received, an offer of admission
is not transferable to another term or to another university.
Importance of Filing Complete, Accurate
and Authentic Application for Admission
Documents
CSU Dominguez Hills advises prospective students that they must supply
complete and accurate information on the application for admission,
residency questionnaire, and financial aid forms. Further, applicants
must, when requested, submit authentic and official transcripts of all
previous academic work attempted. Failure to file complete, accurate,
and authentic application documents may result in denial of admission,
cancellation of registration or academic credit, suspension, or expulsion
(Section 41301, Article 1.1, Title 5, California Code of Regulations).
Educational Opportunity Program (EOP)
The Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) is an admission program
that recruits and admits first generation students who may not meet
the standard admission requirements for the University, but who display
the potential to succeed at the University. The EOP facilitates the
enrollment and academic success for the educationally and economically
disadvantaged. An application deadline exists for the fall semester of
each academic year.
Acceptance in the program is based upon an evaluation of the student's
past educational experience, completion of the EOP admission
application (which may be used at all campuses within the CSU) and
mandatory attendance at an informational session. Once admitted in
the EOP, students are provided with support services (i.e., academic
advisement, counseling and financial aid advisement) to maximize their
potential for academic success.
Former EOP students at CSU Dominguez Hills must apply directly to the
EOP Office for undergraduate readmission. This procedure is necessary
to ensure that admission, as well as financial assistance are rendered to
the student in a timely manner. The EOP Office is located in Welch Hall
D-350. (310) 243-3632.
Provisional Admission of First-time
Freshmen Applicants
CSU Dominguez Hills may provisionally admit first-time freshman
applicants based on their academic preparation through the junior year
of high school and planned coursework for the senior year. The university
will monitor the final terms of study to ensure that admitted students
complete their secondary school studies satisfactorily, including the
required college preparatory subjects, and graduate from high school.
Students are required to submit an official transcript after graduation to
certify that all course work has been satisfactorily completed. Official
high school transcripts must be received prior to the deadline set by the
University. In no case may documentation of high school graduation be
received any later than the census date for a student’s first term of CSU
enrollment. A CSU may rescind admission decisions, cancel financial
aid awards, withdraw housing contracts and cancel any University
registration for students who are found to be ineligible after the final
transcript has been evaluated.
Applicants will qualify for regular (non-provisional) admission when
the university verifies that they have graduated and received a high
school diploma, have completed the comprehensive pattern of college
preparatory “a-g” subjects, and, if applying to an impacted program or
university, have met all supplementary criteria.
98 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
Subject Requirements
The CSU requires that first-time freshman applicants complete, with
grade of C-or better, a comprehensive pattern of college preparatory study
totaling 15 units. A "unit" is one year of study in high school.
• 2 years of social science, including 1 year of U.S. history and
government
• 4 years of English
• 3 years of math (algebra, geometry and intermediate algebra; four
years recommended)
• 2 years of laboratory science (1 biological & 1 physical, both must
have laboratory instruction)
• 2 years in the same foreign language (subject to waiver for applicants
demonstrating equivalent competition)
• 1 year of visual and performing arts; art, dance, drama/theater or
music
• 1 year of electives: selected from English, advanced mathematics,
social science, history, laboratory science, foreign language, visual
and performing arts or other courses approved and included on the
UC/CSU "a-g" list
Intent to Enroll
Applicants who have been offered admission should notify the campus
of their acceptance and if required, make a deposit by the specified
campus deadline. The enrollment deposit is applied as payment against
the tuition fee payable at the time of registration for students who
matriculate. An enrollment deposit may be forfeited for a student who
does not enroll. Students eligible for need-based financial aid and/or fee
waivers may or may not be required to pay the deposit. Deadlines and
deposit fees are subject to change without prior notice.
Adult Students
As an alternative to regular admission criteria, an applicant who is
25 years of age or older may be considered for admission as an adult
student if they meet all of the following conditions:
1. Possesses a high school diploma (or has established equivalence
through either the General Educational Development or California
High School Proficiency Examinations)
2. Has not been enrolled in college as a full-time student for more than
one term during the past five years
3. If there has been any college attendance in the last five years, has
earned a 2.00 GPA or better in all college work attempted.
Consideration will be based upon a judgment as to whether the applicant
is as likely to succeed as a regularly admitted freshman or transfer
student and will include an assessment of basic skills in the English
language and mathematical computation.
Graduation Requirement in Writing Proficiency
All students must demonstrate competency in writing skills as a
requirement for graduation. Information on currently available ways
to meet this graduation requirement may be obtained from [name of
appropriate university office or officer].
English Language Requirement
All undergraduate applicants whose native language is not English
and who have not attended schools at the secondary level or above for
at least three years full time where English is the principal language
of instruction must present a minimum score of 61 or above on the
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), a score of 5.5 on
the International English Language Testing System (IELTS), or a score
of 95 on the Duolingo English Test (DET) . Some majors and some
CSUs may require a score higher than the minimum university score.
A few CSUs may also use alternative methods of assessing English
fluency: Pearson Test of English Academic (PTE Academic), the , and the
International Test of English Proficiency (ITEP). Each university will post
the tests it accepts and when to submit scores.
CSU Minimum TOEFL Standards
Level Internet Paper
Undergraduate 61 500
Graduate 80 550
CSUDH Minimum English Proficiency Standards
International (Foreign) Student Admission
Requirements
The CSU must assess the academic preparation of foreign students.
For this purpose, “foreign students” include those who hold U.S.
temporary visas as students, exchange visitors, or in other non-immigrant
classifications.
The CSU uses separate requirements and application filing dates in the
admission of “foreign students”. Verification of English proficiency (see
the section on the English Language Requirement for undergraduate
applicants), financial resources, and academic performance are each
important considerations for admission. Academic records from foreign
institutions must be on file at least eight weeks before the first term and,
if not in English, must be accompanied by certified English translations.
International visa applicants are required to comply with the following
requirements and instructions:
1. International applicants are encouraged to consult with an advisor
in the Office of International Programs before applying for admission
to the University. Because the evaluation of international credentials
may take considerable time, separate filing deadlines are in effect for
applications from foreign students.
2. Applicants must file the application for admission accompanied by
a nonrefundable application fee. An application is for a specific term
and is not transferable to any other term.
3. Applicants must show evidence of competence in the language. The
results of the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) with
a minimum score of 500 (or 173 on the computerized TOEFL) are
required to show evidence of English competence. Applicants taking
the Internet-based (iBT) TOEFL must present a score of 61 or above.
4. Applicants must submit an affidavit of financial support. The form is
available from the Office of Admissions.
5. Freshmen applicants must be determined by the University to have
academic preparation equivalent to U.S. high school graduates.
6. All official documents submitted become the property of the
University and will not be returned of forwarded. The acceptability
of any international work will be determined by the University. For
more information visit the International Students website: http://
csudh.edu/international (http://csudh.edu/international/). Admission
of students who have not attended US institutions is based upon
demonstration of preparation equivalent to that required of California
2024-25 University Catalog 99
residents. The Office of Admissions has the final authority for
assessing the transferability of credit.
7. Applicants who are transfer students must have completed 60
transferable semester units (90 quarter) with a grade point average
of 2.0 at an accredited US institution. Official transcripts from each
institution attended are required. Priority in admission is given
to residents of California. There is little likelihood of nonresident
applicants, including international students, being admitted either to
impacted majors or to those with limited openings.
Official Transcript Requirements for
Admission
A transcript is official if it is sent directly from the school of origin to the
Office of Admissions at this University and bears the official seal of the
school of origin and the signature of the Records Custodian.
A transcript hand-carried by the applicant from the institution of origin in
an envelope sealed by the issuing institution may be accepted as official.
A transcript bearing a college seal is not official unless it meets the above
guidelines.
Official transcripts are required from all institutions attended, including
extension and correspondence courses, even if withdrawal occurred prior
to the completion of the course(s). The University reserves the right to
determine whether a transcript will be accepted as official.
An applicant disregarding this regulation is subject to disciplinary action
and will have the application for admission cancelled.
Schools and colleges will send transcripts only upon the request of the
student. The responsibility for ensuring that official transcripts reach the
Office of Admissions rests with the applicant.
When ordering transcripts, the request should be addressed to the Office
of Admissions at the particular institution. Most institutions require a fee
for sending transcripts.
All transcripts submitted become the property of this University. Students
are required to have their own personal set of transcripts from all
institutions attended for advisement. The Office of Admissions will not
provide copies.
Students admitted on a provisional basis must submit required final
official transcripts by the established deadlines. See Provisional
Admission.
First-time Freshmen Applicants
Applicants enrolled in their last semester of high school must file a
transcript showing all work completed to date (sophomore, junior and
first semester of senior year). After high school graduation, a final
transcript must be filed.
Applicants who have graduated from high school but who have not
attended a college or university must file an official transcript showing
grades earned during the last three years of high school.
Transfer Applicants
Official transcripts must include all college work completed to date. If
currently enrolled, a work-in-progress report is required; a final official
transcript is required upon completion of work-in-progress.
Undergraduate applicants with less than 60 transferable semester (84
quarter) units completed must also file an official high school transcript
showing grades earned during the last three years of high school and the
date of high school graduation.
Upper division undergraduate applicants (60 or more transferable credits)
may be required to submit official transcripts showing completion of high
school subject requirements.
Determination of Residency for Tuition
Purposes
University requirements for establishing residency for tuition purposes
are independent from requirements for establishing residency for
other purposes, such as for tax purposes, or other state or institutional
residency. These regulations were promulgated not to determine
whether a student is a resident or nonresident of California, but rather
to determine whether a student qualifies to pay university fees at the
in-state or out-of-state rate. A resident for tuition purposes is someone
who meets the requirements set forth in the Uniform Student Residency
Requirements. These laws governing residency for tuition purposes at
the California State University are California Education Code sections
68000-68086, 68120-68133, and 89705-89707.5, and California Code
of Regulations, Title 5, Subchapter 5, Article 4, sections 41900- 41915.
This material can be viewed by accessing the California State University
website (https://www.calstate.edu/apply/california-residency-for-tuitionpurposes/).
Each CSUs Admissions Office is responsible for determining the
residency status of that university’s new and returning students based,
as applicable, on the student’s Application for Admission, Residency
Questionnaire, and, as necessary, other information the student furnishes.
A student who fails to provide sufficient information to establish resident
status will be classified as a nonresident.
Residency Requirements
Initial Determination: Eligible Immigration Status, Physical
Presence and Intent
A student seeing to pay in-state tuition at a California State University
(CSU) as a first-time freshman, transfer, or as a post-baccalaureate/
graduate student must have an eligible immigration status to establish
residency (see Eligible Immigration Information), meet physical
presence by the Residence Determination Date, and demonstrate
intent to indefinitely remain in the State of California for more than on
year immediately preceding the Residence Determination Date. If the
student is under the age of 19 (with limited exceptions), the student's
residence status is derived from that of the parent or from that of the
legal guardian.
Requirements for Residency for Tuition Purposes
Physical Presence: The student or parent/guardian must be physically
present in California for more than one year immediately preceding the
Residence Determination Date in which enrollment is contemplated. For
example, if a student plans to attend the CSU for the Fall 2024 academic
term, and the Resident Determination Date for that term is September
20, 2023, the student must establish a physical presence in California no
later than September 19, 2023.
Intent: California law stipulates the burden of proof rests with the
student, and merely living in California for a year does not support a
claim for residency for tuition purposes. The student, or in some cases a
parent or legal guardian, must demonstrate intent to remain indefinitely
in the state for more than one year immediately preceding the Residence
Determination Date (RDD) and sever all residential ties with the former
100 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
state or country of residence. If the student in under the age of 19,
the student's residence status is derived from that of the parent or
legal guardian unless an exception applies. There must be sufficient
documentation to demonstrate that intent was established more than
one year (a minimum of one year and one day) before the RDD.
Documents must include the student's name, the student's California
address, and a date at least one year and one day prior or on the RDD
for the term. For students under the age of 19, documents must be in
the parent or legal guardian's name unless an exception applies. Also, a
parent or legal guardian's immigration status does not preclude a student
from establishing residency; therefore, the parent or legal guardian is not
required to provide any immigration documents to demonstrate intent.
Evidence demonstrating intent to remain in the State of California
indefinitely may vary from case to case, but will include, and is not
necessarily limited to, the absence of residential ties to any other state,
California voter registration, and history of actually voting in California
elections, maintaining California vehicle registration and driver's license,
maintaining active California bank accounts, filing California income tax
returns and listing a California address on federal tax returns, owning
residential property or occupying or renting a residence where permanent
buildings are kept, maintaining active memberships in California
professional or social organizations, and maintaining a permanent
military address and home of record in California.
Exceptions
Evidence demonstrating intent to remain in the State of California
indefinitely may vary from case to case, but will include, and is not
necessarily limited to, the absence of residential ties to any other state,
California voter registration and history of actually voting in California
elections, maintaining California vehicle registration and driver's license,
maintaining active California bank accounts, filing California income tax
returns and listing a California address on federal tax returns, owning
residential property or occupying or renting a residence where permanent
belongings are kept, maintaining active memberships in California
professional or social organizations, and maintaining a permanent
military address and home of record in California. For a complete list
of acceptable supporting documents, please visit www.calstate.edu/
residency (http://www.calstate.edu/residency/) under Intent.
Residency Exceptions and Exemptions
Students not classified as California residents for tuition purposes may
qualify for an exception or an exemption from payment of nonresident
tuition. Exceptions to the general residency requirements are contained
in California Education Code sections 68070-68086 and California Code
of Regulations, Title 5, Subchapter 5, Article 4, sections 41906- 41906.6,
41910. Whether an exception applies to a particular student can only be
determined after the submission of an application for admission and,
as necessary, additional supporting documentation. Because neither
the university nor the Chancellor's Office staff may give legal advice,
applicants are strongly urged to review the material for themselves and
consult with a legal advisor.
Quarter Term CSUs
Term Date
Fall September 20
Winter January 5
Spring April 1
Summer July 1
Semester Term CSUs
Term Date
Fall September 20
Winter January 5
Spring January 25
Summer June 1
CalState TEACH
Term Date
Fall September 20
Spring January 5
Summer June 1
Reclassification - Financial Independence
(only applies to continuing students)
A student classified as a non-resident for a prior term may seek
reclassification in any subsequent term; however, reclassification requires
that, in addition to satisfying the requirements of physical presence and
intent to remain indefinitely in the state, the student must also satisfy
the requirement of financial independence as outlined in Title 5 CCR §
41905.5. To do so, the student must contact the appropriate person in
the university admissions office and complete a Residency Questionnaire
Form and provide supporting documents.
41905.5 Residency Reclassification - Financial Independence
Requirement
• Any non-resident student requesting reclassification to the
resident for tuition purposes must demonstrate financial
independence.
• Student has not and will not be claimed as an exemption for
state and federal tax purposes by his/her parent in the calendar
year the reclassification application is made and in any of the
three calendar years prior to the reclassification application
• Student has not and will not receive more than seven hundred
fifty dollars ($750) per year in financial assistance from their
parent in the calendar year the reclassification application
is made and in any of the three calendar years prior to the
reclassification application.
• Student has not lived and will not live for more than six
weeks in the home of their parent during the calendar year the
reclassification application is made and in any of the three
calendar years prior to the reclassification application.
• Note: Students who receive a government scholarship and/or
financial assistance should be viewed the same as state and
federal financial aid, and athletics grants-is-aid; and should not
be counted as parental support.
• Effective Fall 2020 academic term, if the student meets at least
one of the following criteria, the student does not have to meet
the financial independence requirement. Students must provide
the university admissions office with supporting documents
(e.g. state income tax returns, court documents, marriage
certificate, military order form) that demonstrate they meet the
criteria.
2024-25 University Catalog 101
• Dependent on a parent who has California residence for
more than one year immediately preceding the residence
determination date;
• Enrolled in a graduate or post#baccalaureate program,
regardless of age;
• Turned 24 years of age by the residence determination date;
• Married or registered domestic partner as of the residence
determination date;
• Active duty members serving in the U.S Armed Forces;
• Veteran of the U.S. Armed Forces;
• Legal dependent other than spouse or registered domestic
partner;
• Former ward of the court, foster youth or both parents are
deceased;
• Declared by a court to be an emancipated minor; or
• Unaccompanied youth who is homeless or at risk of
becoming homeless.
Residency Appeals
A student classified as a nonresident may appeal a final university
decision within 30 days of notification by the university. Appeals will be
accepted only if at least one of the following criteria applies:
1. The decision was based on:
a. A significant error of fact by the university;
b. A significant procedural error by the university; or
c. An incorrect application of the law which, if corrected would
require that the student be reclassified as a California resident;
and/or
d. Significant new information, not previously know or available
to the student, became available after the date of the university
decision classifying the student as a nonresident and based
on the new information, the classification as a nonresident is
incorrect.
Instructions to submit an appeal and additional information can be
found on the California Residency for Tuition Purposes website. (https://
www2.calstate.edu/apply/california-residency-for-tuition-purposes/)
Appeals via email, fax and U.S. mail will not be accepted. A student with
a document disability who requests an accommodation to submit an
appeal through the California State University (CSU) website (https://
www.calstate.edu/) should contact Student Affairs and Enrollment
Management at https://www.calstate.edu/apply/california-residency-fortuition-purposes/Pages/filing-a-residency-appeal.aspx.
The Office of the Chancellor will either decide the appeal or send the
matter back to the university for further review.
A student incorrectly classified as a resident or incorrectly granted an
exception from nonresident tuition is subject to reclassification as a
nonresident or withdrawal of the exception and subject to payment
of nonresident tuition in arrears. If incorrect classification results
from false or concealed facts, the student may also be subject to
discipline pursuant to Section 41301 of Title 5 of the California Code of
Regulations. A student previously classified as a resident or previously
granted an exception is required to immediately notify the Office of
Admissions if the student has reason to believe that the student no
longer qualifies as a resident or no longer meets the criteria for an
exception.
Changes may have been made in the rate of nonresident tuition and in
the statutes and regulations governing residency for tuition purposes in
California between the time this information is published and the relevant
residency determination date. Students are urged to review the statutes
and regulations stated above.
Nonresident Tuition Exemption for California High
School Students: AB 540, AB 2000, SB 68
The nonresident tuition exemption for California high school students
(AB540) took effect January 1, 2002. This exemption does not provide
resident status to students meeting the requirements but rather exempts
certain nonresident students from paying nonresident tuition if they meet
all requirements in section 68130.50 of the California Education Code.
The requirements are:
The student must have attended a California high school full time for
three or more years. The law does not require consecutive attendance.
Qualifying attendance can be at multiple California high schools. The law
does not distinguish between public and private high schools nor impose
any time limit on how far in the past the student may have attended a
high school.
The student must have graduated from a California high school or
attained the equivalent thereof (e.g. a High School Equivalency Certificate
issued by the California Department of Education. A G.E.D. certificate
alone does not qualify). There is no limit on how far in the past the
student may have attained this status.
Undocumented alien students must file an Affidavit with the college
indicating the student has applied for legal immigration status or will do
so as soon as the student is eligible to do so.
Except for nonimmigrant aliens, nonresident students who meet the first
two requirements (three years of California high school attendance and
either graduation or the equivalent) shall be exempted from nonresident
tuition even if the student is a U.S. Citizen or lawful immigrant.
If the student has filed an application with USCIS to legalize his or her
immigration status, the student may already be eligible for resident fee
status under the residency laws if that student has resided in California
for more than one year since the time of USCIS application.
Students who are nonimmigrant aliens (temporary visa holders, the most
common being the F student visa and B visitor visa, but including all
nonimmigrant visa categories) are not eligible for this exemption, even if
their valid nonimmigrant status subsequently lapses. (A full description
of nonimmigrant alien classification is found in 8 United States Code
section 1101(a)(15) and is summarized in The Residence Handbook on
pages 2-4).
This new law specifies that undocumented alien students must sign
an Affidavit (developed by the Chancellor's Office) regarding their
immigration status. The law requires that all information obtained in the
implementation of AB540 be kept confidential.
A student seeking this tuition exemption has the burden of providing
evidence of compliance with the requirements for this exemption.
Inquiries concerning AB540 may be directed to the Office of Admissions
at (310) 243-3645 or the Office of Admissions website at: https://
www.csudh.edu/future-students/residency-info/residency-form-
102 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
instructions. (https://www.csudh.edu/future-students/residencyinfo/residency-form-instructions/) (https://www.calstate.edu/apply/
california-residency-for-tuition-purposes/Pages/filing-a-residencyappeal.aspx)This information could also be viewed by accessing the
California State University's website at: www.calstate.edu/Title5/
index.html (http://www.calstate.edu/Title5/).
Other Applicants
An applicant not admissible under one of the listed provisions should
enroll in a community college or other appropriate institution. Only
under the most unusual circumstances will such applicants be granted
admission to CSU Dominguez Hills. Permission is granted only by special
action.
Hardship Petitions
The university has established procedures for consideration of qualified
applicants who would be faced with extreme hardship if not admitted.
Petitioners should write to the university Admission Office regarding
specific policies governing hardship admission. https://www.csudh.edu/
future-students/have-applied/denied-admission (https://www.csudh.edu/
future-students/have-applied/denied-admission/)
Notification of Eligibility
In order that students may be informed as early as possible about
eligibility, they are urged to apply early in the application period. When
notified by the University to do so, they should promptly request that
supporting documents (transcripts and test scores) be sent to the Office
of Admissions. The time between receipt of an application by the Office
of Admissions and notification of eligibility status to applicants will vary.
Early notification will be provided to those freshman applicants who can
establish their eligibility prior to high school graduation. Other freshman
applicants should not expect notification until at least four weeks after
final transcripts reach the Office of Admissions.
Transfer students applying for admission in advanced standing may
expect notification approximately four weeks after final transcripts have
been received. Transcripts must include all college work completed to
date. If currently enrolled, a work-in-progress report is required, and a final
transcript is required upon completion of work-in-progress.
Insurance Requirement
Effective August 1, 1995, as a condition of receiving an I-20 or IAP-66
form, all F-1 and J-1 visa applicants must agree to obtain and maintain
health insurance as a condition of registration and continued enrollment
in the California State University. Such insurance must be in amounts as
specified by the United States Information Agency (USIA) and NAFSA:
Association of International Educators. Further information may be
obtained at www.csudh.edu/iss (http://www.csudh.edu/iss/).
Use of Social Security Number
Applicants are required to include their correct social security numbers
in designated places on applications for admission pursuant to
the authority contained in Section 41201, Title 5, California Code of
Regulations, and Section 6109 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C.
6109). The University uses the social security number to identify students
and their records including identification for purposes of financial
aid eligibility and disbursement and the repayment of financial aid
and other debts payable to the institution. Also, the Internal Revenue
Service requires the University to file information returns that include
the student’s social security number and other information such as
the amount paid for qualified tuition, related expenses, and interest on
educational loans. This information is used by the IRS to help determine
whether a student, or a person claiming a student as a dependent, may
take a credit or deduction to reduce federal income taxes. The Financial
Aid Office will also use it to report Federal Work Study earnings to the
Federal Department of Education.
Taxpayers who claim Hope Scholarship or Lifetime Learning tax credit will
be required to provide the campus with the name, address, and Taxpayer
Identification Number.
Undergraduate Admission Requirements
The California Promise
The California Promise Program enables a specific number of CSUs to
establish pledge programs for entering first-time students who are both
interested and able to complete baccalaureate degrees in 4-years. All
CSUs have established programs for students with Associate Degrees
for Transfer from any California Community College to complete their
baccalaureate degrees in 2-years. The program is limited to students who
are residents of California.
Students who commit to enter either the 4-year or 2-year pledge will
be given a priority registration appointment for each state-supported
enrollment period and will be provided with routine and thorough
academic advisement. In order to remain in the program, students
must meet with their advisors as prescribed, develop an enrollment
plan, and complete 30 semester units or quarter equivalent within
each academic year, including summer. Participating CSUs may
stipulate other requirements as well. Interested students entering
the CSU should contact the university offices or visit The California
Promise Program website (https://www2.calstate.edu/apply/freshman/
getting_into_the_csu/Pages/the-california-promise-program.aspx).
• Toro California Promise Finish in Four Scholars Program
• Toro California Promise Thru in Two Scholars Program
Freshman Requirements
Generally, applicants will qualify for consideration for first-time freshman
admission if they meet the following requirements:
1. Have graduated from high school, have earned a Certificate of General
Education Development (GED) or have passed the California High
School Proficiency Examination (CHSPE);
2. Complete the 15-unit comprehensive "a-g" pattern of college
preparatory courses;
3. Have completed with grades of C- or better each of the courses in the
comprehensive pattern of college preparatory subject requirements,
also known as the “a-g” pattern (see “Subject Requirements”); and
• The CSU will accept "Credit" or "Pass" grades to satisfy "a-g"
requirements completed during Winter, Spring, Summer or Fall
2020 terms and during Winter, Spring or Summer 2021 terms. The
CSU expects and assumes that high school Pass (Credit) grades
will represent work completed at the C- or higher level. As of Fall
2021 and forward, grades are expected for courses.
4. Earn a qualifying "a-g" grade-point average (GPA) as described below.
• California residents and graduates of California high schools will
be eligible for admission by earning a 2.50 or greater “a-g” GPA
• Any California high school graduate or resident of California
earning a GPA between 2.00 and 2.49 may be evaluated for
admission based upon supplemental factors such as a number
2024-25 University Catalog 103
of courses exceeding maximum "a-g" requirements, household
income, extracurricular involvement, and other available
information that would inform the university admission decision.
• Non-California residents may be eligible for admission to the
CSU by earning a 3.00 or greater “a-g” GPA along with other
supplemental factors utilized by the individual university,
including those outlined by impacted universities and programs.
• Any non-California resident earning a GPA between 2.47 and
2.99 may be evaluated for admission based upon supplemental
factors such as number of courses exceeding minimum "a-g"
requirements, household income, extracurricular involvement,
and other available information that would inform the university
admission decision. 
5. Each CSU will determine the supplemental factors used with GPA to
determine eligibility in these cases and communicate these criteria
publicly for prospective students.
The California State University (CSU) has permanently discontinued
the use of ACT/SAT examinations in determining admission eligibility.
Submitted test scores by admitted students would be considered only for
purposes of student placement in Math or English courses.
Universities will use a combination of students' “a-g" GPA and
supplemental factors to determine admission eligibility
Subject Requirements
The CSU requires that first-time freshman applicants complete, with
grades of C- or better, a comprehensive pattern of college preparatory
study totaling 15 units. A “unit” is one year of study in high school.
• 2 years of social science, including 1 year of U.S. history, or U.S.
history and government
• 4 years of English
• 3 years of math (algebra, geometry and intermediate algebra; four
years recommended)
• 2 years of laboratory science (1 biological & 1 physical, both must
have laboratory instruction)
• 2 years in the same foreign language (subject to waiver for applicants
demonstrating equivalent competence)
• 1 year of visual and performing arts: art, dance, drama/theater, or
music
• 1 year of electives: selected from English, advanced mathematics,
social science, history, laboratory science, foreign language, visual
and performing arts or other courses approved and included on the
UC/CSU “a-g” list.
Foreign Language Subject Requirement- The foreign language
subject requirement may be satisfied by applicants who demonstrate
competence in a language other than English equivalent to or higher
than expected of students who complete two years of foreign language
study. For further information, students should consult a counselor or any
advisor at a CSU campus admissions office.
Subject Requirement Substitution for Students with DisabilitiesApplicants with disabilities are encouraged to complete college
preparatory course requirements, if at all possible. If a student is judged
unable to fulfill a specific course requirement because of his or her
disability, alternative college preparatory courses may be substituted
for specific subject requirements. Substitutions may be authorized on
an individual basis after review and recommendation by the student's
academic advisor or guidance counselor in consultation with the
director of a CSU disabled student services program. Students should
be aware that failure to complete courses required for admission may
limit their later enrollment in certain majors, particularly those involving
mathematics. For further information and substitution forms, please call
the director of the Student disAbility Resource Center (310) 243-3660.
Additional College Preparatory Courses Recommended
Most academic advisors agree that preparation for university study
includes preparation in subjects beyond four years of English and three
years of mathematics. Please see the section on Subject Requirements
found in this portion of the University Catalog. Bachelor's degree curricula
build upon previous study in the natural sciences, social sciences, visual
and performing arts, foreign languages, and the humanities. Students
planning to major in mathematics, the sciences (including computer
science), engineering, pre-medicine, other science-related fields, business,
or economics should complete four years of college preparatory
mathematics. Students in the social sciences and pre-professional
fields of study should include at least three years of mathematics in the
preparatory studies. Further, all students should include English and
mathematics in the final year of high school.
High School Students
High school students may be considered for enrollment in certain special
programs if recommended by the
principal and the appropriate university department chair and if
preparation is equivalent to that required of
eligible California high school graduates. Such admission is only for a
given specific program and does not
constitute a right to continued enrollment
Transfer Policies of California State
University
Most commonly, college-level credits earned from an institution of
higher education accredited by a regional/national accrediting agency
are accepted for transfer to member universities of the CSU; however,
authority for decisions regarding the transfer of undergraduate credits is
delegated to each university.
California Community Colleges and other authorized certifying
institutions can certify up to 39 semester (58.5 quarter) units of General
Education-Breadth (GE-Breadth) or 37 semester (55.5 quarter) units of
the Intersegmental General Education Transfer Curriculum (IGETC) for
transfer students to fulfill lower-division general education requirements
for any CSU prior to transfer.
“Certification” is the official notification from a California Community
College or authorized institution that a transfer student has completed
courses fulfilling lower-division general education requirements. The
CSU GE-Breadth and the Intersegmental General Education Transfer
Curriculum (IGETC) certification course lists for particular community
colleges can be accessed on the official transfer and articulation system
for California's public colleges and universities website, assist.org
(https://assist.org/).
CSUs may enter into course-to-course or program-to-program articulation
agreements with other CSUs, and any or all of the California community
colleges and other regionally accredited institutions. Established
CSU and CCC articulations may be found on http://www.assist.org.
Students may be permitted to transfer no more than 70 semester (105
quarter) units to a CSU campus from an institution which does not
offer bachelor’s degrees or their equivalents, for example, community
colleges. Given the university’s 30-semester (45-quarter) unit residency
104 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
requirement, no more than a total of 90 semester (135 quarter) units may
be transferred into the university from all sources.
Transfer Requirements
Applicants who have completed fewer than 60 transferable semester
college units (fewer than 90 quarter units) are considered lowerdivision transfer students. Applicants who have completed 60 or more
transferable semester college units (90 or more quarter units) are
considered upper-division transfer students. Applicants who complete
college units during high school or through the summer immediately
following high school graduation are considered first-time freshmen
and must meet the CSU minimum eligibility requirements for first-time
freshman admission. Transferable courses are those designated for
baccalaureate credit by the college or University offering the courses
and accepted as such by the university to which the applicant seeks
admission.
Lower Division Transfer Requirements
Due to increased enrollment demands, some CSUs do not admit
lower-division transfer applicants. Students are advised to check the
respective university they are interested in to if the lower-division transfer
applications are accepted.
An applicant who completes fewer than 60 semester (90-quarter) units
of college credit is considered a lower-division transfer student. Due to
enrollment pressures, some CSUs do not admit lower-division transfers
so that more upper-division transfers can be accommodated.
Having fewer than 60 semester (90-quarter) units at the point of transfer
may affect eligibility for registration priority at a CSU and may affect the
students' financial aid status.
California resident transfer applicants with fewer than 60 semester (90-
quarter) units must:
• Have a cumulative grade point average of 2.0 (c) or better in all
transferable units attempted;
• Have completed, with a grade of C- or better, a course in written
communication and a course in mathematics or quantitative
reasoning at a level satisfying CSU General Education Breadth Area
A2 and B4 requirements, respectively;
• Be in good standing at the last institution attended; and
• Meet any one of the following eligibility standards.
Transfer Based on Current Admission Criteria
The applicant meets the freshman admission requirements in effect for
the term for which the application is filed; - ORTransfer Based on High School Eligibility
The applicant was eligible as a freshman at the time of high school
graduation and has been in continuous attendance in an accredited
college since high school graduation; -ORTransfer Based on Making Up Missing Subjects
The applicant had a qualifiable eligibility index at the time of high school
graduation (combination of GPA and test scores if needed), has made
up any missing subject requirements with a frad of C- or better, and has
been in continuous attendance in an accredited college since high school
graduation.
One baccalaureate-level course of at least 3-semester (4-quarter) units is
usually considered equivalent to one year of high school study.
(Note: Some CSUs may require lower-division transfer students to
complete specific college coursework, for example the four basic skill
courses, as part of their admission criteria.)
Upper Division Transfer Requirements
Generally, applicants will qualify for consideration for upper-division
transfer admission if they meet all of the following requirements:
1. Cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 in all transferable units
attempted;
2. In good standing at the last college or university attended; and
3. Completed at least sixty (60) transferable semester (90 quarter)
units of college level coursework with a grade point average of 2.0
or higher and a grade of C- or better in each course used to meet
the CSU general education requirements in written communication,
oral communication, critical thinking, and quantitative reasoning,
e.g. mathematics. The 60 units must include at least 30 units of
courses that meet CSU general education requirement, including
all of the general education requirements in communication in the
English language (both oral and written) and critical thinking and
the requirement in mathematics/quantitative reasoning (usually 3
semester units) or the Intersegmental General Education Transfer
Curriculum (IGETC) requirements in English communication and
mathematical concepts and quantitative reasoning.
Associate Degrees for Transfer (AA-T or AS-T)
The Associate in Arts for Transfer (AA-T) and the Associate in Science
for Transfer (AS-T) degrees offered at the California Community Colleges
(CCC) are designed to provide a California community college student the
optimum transfer preparation and a clear admission pathway to the CSU
degree majors.
CCC students who earn an Associate Degree for Transfer (AA-T or AS-T)
are guaranteed admission with junior standing to a CSU and given priority
admission over other transfer applicants when applying to a local CSU
or non-impacted CSU program. AA-T or AS-T admission applicants are
given limited priority consideration based on their eligibility ranking to
an impacted university/program or to campuses/programs that have
been deemed similar to the degree completed at the community college.
Students who have completed an AA-T/AS-T in a program deemed
similar to a CSU major are able to complete remaining requirements for
graduation within 60 semester (90 quarter) units. It is the responsibility
of the student who has earned an AA-T/AS-T to provide documentation
of the degree to the CSU. For the admissions process, students are
responsible for working with their community college counselors to
complete verification of AA-T or AS-T degree progress through the e-verify
process within the established university deadlines.
Provisional Admission of Transfer Applicants
CSU Dominguez Hills may provisionally or conditionally admit transfer
applicants based on their academic preparation and courses planned
for completion. The university will monitor the final terms to ensure
those admitted complete all required courses satisfactorily. All accepted
applicants are required to submit an official transcript of all college-level
work completed. CSUs may rescind admission for any student who is
found to be ineligible after the final transcript has been evaluated. In no
case may such documents be received and validated by the university
any later than a student’s registration for their second term of CSU
enrollment.
2024-25 University Catalog 105
General Information - Admission and
Evaluation of Academic Records
Advanced Placement
CSU Dominguez Hills grants credit toward its undergraduate degrees
for successful completion of examinations of the Advanced Placement
Program of the College Board. Students who present scores of three
or better will be granted up to six semester units (nine quarter units) of
college credit.
Advanced Placement (AP) Credit can count for General Education (GE),
lower division major/minor requirements, or elective credit. Students
must submit official Advanced Placement scores to the Office of
Admissions before credit is awarded.
The following exams satisfy CSUDH General Education requirements or
major/minor courses:
Advanced Placement Examination
AP
Examination
AP
Score
CSUDH
GE Area
Met
CSUDH
GE
Course
Equivalent
GE Units CSUDH
Elective
Course
Equivalent
Elective
Units
Total
Units
Art
History
3 C2 3 3 6
Biology 3 B2 & B3 BIO 102
&
BIO 103
4 2 6
Calculus
AB1
3 B4 3 0 3
Calculus
AB1
4, 5 B4 MAT 1913 0 3
Calculus
BC1
3 B4 3 3 6
Calculus
BC1
4, 5 B4 MAT 191
&
MAT 193
3 3 6
Chemistry3 B1 & B3 CHE 102
&
CHE 103
4 2 6
Chinese
Language
&
Culture
3 C3 3 3 6
Comparative
Government
&
Politics
3 D2 3 0 3
Computer
Science
A
1
3 N/A 0 CSC 121 3 3
Computer
Science
AB1
3 N/A 0 6 6
Computer
Science
Principles
3 B4 3 3 6
English
Literature
&
Composition
3 A1 & C3 ENG 110 6 ENG 111 0 6
English
Language
&
Composition
3 A1 ENG 110 3 ENG 111 3 6
Environmental
Sciences2
3 B1 & B3 4 0 4
European
History
3 D2 3 3 6
French
Language
&
Culture
3, 4 C3 3 FRE 110
&
FRE 111
3 6
French
Language
&
Culture
5 C3 FRE 220 3 FRE 111 3 6
German
Language
&
Culture
3 C3 3 3 6
Human
Geography
3 D2 GEO 100 3 0 3
Italian
Language
&
Culture
3 C3 3 3 6
Japanese
Language
&
Culture
3 C3 3 3 6
Latin 3 C3 3 3 3
Macroeco3nomics D1 ECO 211 3 0 3
Microeco3nomics D1 ECO 210 3 0 3
Physics
1
3
3 B1 & B3 4 0 4
Physics
2
3
3 B1 & B3 4 0 4
Physics
C
3
(electricity/
magnetism)
3 B1 & B3 4 0 4
Physics
C
3
(mechanics)
3 B1 & B3 4 0 4
Psycholo3gy D1 PSY 101 3 0 3
Research3 N/A 0 3 3
Seminar 3 N/A 0 3 3
Spanish
Language
&
Culture
3, 4 C3 3 SPA 110
&
SPA 111
3 6
106 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
Spanish
Language
&
Culture
5 C3 3 SPA 111
&
SPA 220
3 6
Spanish
Language
&
Culture
3 C3 3 SPA 220 3 6
Spanish
Language
&
Culture
4, 5 C3 SPA 221 3 SPA 220 3 6
Statistics3 B4 3 0 3
Statistics4, 5 B4 MAT 1313 OMG 221
or
SOC 220
0 3
Studio
Art- 2D
3 N/A 0 3 3
Studio
Art- 3D
3 N/A 0 3 3
Studio
ArtDrawing
3 N/A 0 3 3
U.S.
Government
&
Politics
3 N/A 0 POL 101 3 3
U.S.
History
3 D2 3 HIS 101 3 6
World
History
3 D2 HIS 120 3 0 3
1
If a student passes more than one AP exam in calculus or computer
science, only one examination may be applied to the baccalaureate.
2
Students who pass AP Environmental Science earn 4 units of credit.
Tests prior to Fall 2009 may apply to either B1+B3 or B2+B3 of GE
Breadth. Fall of 2009 or later, those credits may only apply to B1+B3.
3
If a student passes more than one AP exam in physics, only six units of
credit may be applied to the baccalaureate, and only four units of credit
may be applied to a certification in GE Breadth.
College Level Examination Program (CLEP)
The University presently is operating under the following CLEP credit
policy. The minimum standards are as follows:
General Examinations
Student must achieve a minimum passing standard score of 50.
Credit granted for general examinations in humanities and natural
science may be used to fulfill General Education requirements as
applicable; if not applicable to General Education, elective credit will be
granted.
Subject Examinations
Student must achieve a minimum passing standard score as determined
by the University for each examination.
Credit will be given only for those examinations determined to be
equivalent to CSU Dominguez Hills courses and may be used to fulfill
General Education, major, minor or elective requirements.
A student shall not receive credit through CLEP for taking a test in a
subject more elementary than those already passed.
CLEP
Examination
CLEP
Score
CSUDH
GE Area
Met
CSUDH
GE
Course
GE Units Elective
Course
Equivalent
Elective
Units
Total
Units
American
Government
50 D2 0 0 3
American
Literature
50 C3 ENG 230 3 0 3
Analyzing
&
Interpreting
Literature
50 C3 ENG 230 3 0 3
Biology 50 B2 BIO 102 3 0 3
Calculus 50 B4 3 0 3
Chemistry50 B1 CHE 102 3 0 3
College
Algebra
50 B4 3 0 3
College
AlgebraTrigonometry
50 B4 3 0 3
College
Composition
50 N/A 0 0 0
College
CompositionModular
50 N/A 0 0 0
College
Mathematics
50 N/A 0 0 0
English
Composition
(no
essay)
50 N/A 0 0 0
English
Composition
(with
essay)
50 N/A 0 0 0
English
Literature
50 C3 ENG 230 3 0 3
Financial
Accounting
50 N/A 0 3 3
French
Level I
1
50 N/A 0 FRE 110
&
FRE 111
6 6
French
Level II
1
59 C3 FRE 220 3 FRE 111 6 9
Freshman
College
Composition
50 N/A 0 0 0
German
Level I
1
50 N/A 0 6 6
German
Level II
1
60 C3 3 6 9
2024-25 University Catalog 107
History,
United
States I
50 N/A 0 HIS 101 3 3
History,
United
States II
50 N/A 0 HIS 101 3 3
Human
Growth
&
Development
50 E 3 0 3
Humanities50 C3 HUM
200
3 0 3
Info
Systems
&
Computer
Applications
50 N/A 0 CIS 270 3 3
Intro to
Educational
Psychology
50 N/A 0 3 3
Introdutory
Business
Law
50 N/A 0 LAW 2403 3
Introductory
Psychology
50 D1 PSY 101 3 0 3
Introductory
Sociology
50 D1 3 0 3
Natural
Sciences
50 B1 3 0 3
Precalculus
50 B4 MAT 1533 0 3
Principles
of
Accounting
50 N/A 0 3 3
Principles
of
Macroeconomics
50 D1 ECO 211 3 0 3
Principles
of
Management
50 N/A 0 MGT 3103 3
Principles
of
Marketing
50 N/A 0 MKT 3503 3
Principles
of
Microconomics
50 D1 ECO 210 3 0 3
Social
Sciences
&
History
50 N/A 0 0 0
Spanish
Level I
1
50 N/A 0 0 0
Spanish
Level II
1
63 C3 SPA 221 3 SPA 220 6 9
Western
Civilization
I
50 C3 or D2 3 0 3
Western
Civilization
II
50 D2 3 0 3
1
If a student passes more than one CLEP test in the same language
other than English (e.g., two exams in French), then only one
examination may be applied to the baccalaureate. For each test in a
language other than English, a passing score of 50 is considered "Level
I" and earns six units of baccalaureate credit; the higher score listed
for each test is considered "Level II" and earns additional units of credit
and placement in Area C3 of GE Breadth, as noted.
CLEP Examination
A student shall not receive credit if an examination duplicates course
work previously noted on a transcript.
Credit awarded through CLEP will not count as residence credit. A student
may earn up to 30 semester units through CLEP. Unless otherwise
indicated, three semester units of credit will be granted for each
examination.
International Baccalaureate (IB)
California State University Dominguez Hills grants credit toward its
undergraduate degrees to students with International Baccalaureate
higher level (HL) Exam passing scores of 4 or 5. Students who wish to
obtain credit for IB Examinations must have their official IB transcripts
forwarded to the Office of Admissions. The IB Table reflects exam area
passing scores, General Education designation and course equivalency
credit.
IB
Examination
IB Score CSUDH
GE Area
Met
CSUDH
GE
Course
Equivalent
GE Units CSUDH
Elective
Course
Equivalent
Elective
Units
Total
Units
Biology
HL
5 B2 BIO 102 3 3 6
Chemistry
HL
5 B1 3 3 6
Economics
HL
5 D1 ECO 210
&
ECO 211
6 0 6
Geography
HL
5 D2 GEO 100 3 3 6
History
(any
region)
HL
5 D2 3 3 6
Language
A
Literature
(any
language
except
English)
HL
4 C3 3 3 6
Language
A
Literature
(English)
HL
4 A1 & C3 ENG 110
&
ENG 230
6 0 6
108 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
Language
A
Language
and
Literature
(any
language
except
English)
HL
4 C3 3 3 6
Language
A
Language
and
Literature
(English)
HL
4 A1 & C3 ENG 110
&
ENG 230
6 0 6
Language
B HL1
4 0 6 6
Language
A1 HL
4 C3 3 3 6
Language
A2 HL
4 C3 3 3 6
Mathematics
HL
4 B4 MAT 191
&
MAT 193
5 1 6
Physics
HL
5 B1 3 3 6
Psychology
HL
5 D1 PSY 101 3 0 3
Theatre
HL
4 C2 3 3 6
1
The IB curriculum offers language at various levels for native and nonnative speakers. Language B courses are offered at the intermediate
level for non-natives. Language A1 and A2 are advanced courses in
literature for native and non-native speakers, respectively.
Credit by Examination
Students may challenge courses by taking examinations developed at
CSU Dominguez Hills. Credit shall be awarded to those who pass them
successfully.
General Conditions
1. A registered student may receive credit by examination for courses
in which he/she is eligible to enroll. The student should contact the
office of the appropriate department to initiate the procedure.
2. Each department will maintain a current listing of courses that may or
may not be taken as credit by examination.
3. The student will select a traditional letter grade or CR/NC option, in
accordance with policies applicable to regular course enrollment.
4. Credit by examination will not be given for course work that an
academic department deems inappropriate or impossible to evaluate.
5. The same course can be taken only once as credit by examination.
6. Credit by examination will not be given for a course if the student has
already received credit for a similar but more advanced course.
7. Units earned by credit by examination may not be used to fulfill the
minimum residence requirement.
Credit for Non-collegiate Instruction
CSU Dominguez Hills grants undergraduate degree credit for successful
completion of non-collegiate instruction, either military or civilian,
appropriate to the baccalaureate degree, which has been recommended
by the Commission on Educational Credit and Credentials of the
American Council on Education. The numbers of units allowed are those
recommended in the Guide to the Evaluation of Educational Experience
in the Armed Services and the National Guide to Educational Credit for
Training Programs.
Credit for Prior Learning
CSU Dominguez Hills grants up to 12 units of credit for learning,
knowledge, or skills-based experience that has been documented and
evaluated according to university policy.
Students should be aware, however, that policies for earning credit for
prior learning vary from university to university in the CSU.
Students who have acquired the equivalent of learning through prior life
experience may apply for academic credit for this learning. Students
must have completed 30 units in residence prior to evaluation of this prior
learning. The Credit for Prior Learning program consists of two parts:
1. Preparation of a portfolio detailing the prior learning under the
guidance of a faculty advisor using the course UNV 380 Portfolio
Preparation (1 unit, CR/NC grading).
2. Evaluation of the learning portfolio by appropriate faculty who will
recommend the number of units of academic credit to be awarded.
Students will then register for the approved number of units using the
course UNV 382 Assess Of Prior Learn (1-11 units, CR/NC grading).
Credit may be used as elective units, or on approval of the appropriate
department chair, as part of the requirements for a major or minor.
For further information concerning this program, please contact your
academic department.
Credit for Military Service
A total of six semester units of lower division elective credit will be
granted for one or more years of active military duty with an honorable
discharge. A photocopy of military separation, DD 214, should be
submitted to the Office of Admissions at the time of application for
admission.
Evaluation of Transfer Credits
Previous college work will be evaluated in terms of its relationship to the
requirements of CSU Dominguez Hills. Some undergraduate programs
have established time limits for previously completed coursework in
the major or minor. Please check the appropriate section of this catalog
or consult with an advisor regarding departmental policy. The transfer
credit evaluation is official and remains valid as long as the student
enrolls in the semester specified and remains in continuous attendance.
If the student is not in continuous attendance and has not applied for
and been granted a formal leave of absence, an evaluation issued upon
readmission will specify any changes in requirements. Students who
obtain a general education certification from a California Community
College will be required to complete at least nine upper division units in
General Education at CSU Dominguez Hills.
2024-25 University Catalog 109
Allowance for Transfer Credit
The maximum credit allowed by the Administrative Code when
transferring from a community college to a state college or university
is 70 semester (105 quarter) units. Upper division credit is not allowed
for courses completed at a community college. Transferability of
courses is determined by the community college. Credit is granted for all
transferable courses completed at regionally accredited institutions with
the exception being the limit on community college credit. Transfer credit
is not limited to those courses that precisely parallel the courses offered
at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Credit for Extension and Correspondence Courses
The University allows transfer credit for appropriate courses completed in
extension or by correspondence from accredited colleges or universities
and from the United States Armed Forces Institute. A maximum of 24
semester (36 quarter) units earned through extension, correspondence
and USAFI may be accepted toward a bachelor's degree.
Credit for Supplemental Transfer Work
In order to receive credit toward a degree for work completed at other
colleges or universities subsequent to matriculation at this University,
students must have official transcripts forwarded to the Office of
Admissions. After a student has completed 70 semester (105 quarter)
units of transferable credit at a community college, no further community
college units will be accepted for unit credit toward the total units
required for the degree. However, course credit will be allowed for meeting
course requirements.
Appeal of Admission Decision
Section 89030.7 of the California Education Code requires that the
California State University establishes specific requirements for appeal
procedures for a denial of admission. Each CSU campus must publish
appeal procedures for applicants denied admission to the university.
The procedure is limited to addressing university decisions to deny an
applicant admission to the university.
Admissions appeal procedures must address the basis for appeals,
provide 15 business days for an applicant to submit an appeal, stipulate
a maximum of one appeal per academic term, provide specific contact
information for the individual or office to which the appeal should be
submitted, and indicate a time estimate for when the university expects
to respond to an appeal. The appeal procedures must be included in all
denial of admission notifications to students, and must also be published
on the university website. http://csudh.edu/admissionappeals (http://
csudh.edu/admissionappeals/)
You may appeal your admission denial if you believe your academic or
personal circumstances could not be considered adequately through
the standard admission review process or that an error occurred in the
application review. If you believe you have been denied admission in error,
you must submit your appeal within 15 days of receipt of your denial
letter (this timeline is based on Assembly Bill 670, Section 89030.7).
You may submit your complete Admission Appeal Packet to:
CSUDH Office of Admissions
Attn. Admission Decision Appeal Committee
1000 E. Victoria Street, WH-C290
Carson, CA 90747
Requirements for a Bachelor's Degree
Students seeking a baccalaureate degree from the University must
complete specific requirements as determined by the Trustees of the
California State University; The California Administrative Code, Title 5;
and, California State University, Dominguez Hills.
Briefly summarized, the college-wide requirements include all of the
following:
1. Completion of a minimum of 120-semester units of credit.
2. Completion of a minimum of 40 upper division units.
3. Completion of General Education (49-semester units, area A-F)
with a GPA of 2.0 or better. (Note: Courses used to satisfy Area "A"
of General Education (Basic Skills) must be at the grade level of
"C-" or better to meet graduation requirements at CSU Dominguez
Hills. Students who transferred in "D" grades in Basic Skills courses
must repeat those courses to satisfy graduation requirements.
Although these courses may have been used to determine eligibility
for admission, unit credit will be granted only once for graduation
purposes for the same course, regardless of the number of times the
course has been repeated.
4. Satisfaction of statutory requirements in U.S. History, Constitution,
and American Ideals by completing courses HIS 101 or examination
and POL 101 or examination.
5. Satisfaction of the Upper-Division Writing Requirement (GWAR).
6. Completion of a major.
7. Completion of elective courses (beyond the requirements above) to
reach the total of a minimum of 120-semester units of credit.
8. Resident requirements, upper division unit requirements, and grade
point average requirements must be satisfied.
Placement Measures for First-Year GE
Written Communication and Mathematics/
Quantitative Reasoning Courses
Freshman skills assessment and placement for general education
written communication and mathematics/quantitative reasoning shall
be based on systemwide skills assessment standards that include the
Early Assessment Program/ Smarter Balanced Achievement Levels, ACT
scores and/or SAT scores, high school coursework, high school GPA and
math GPA.
Skills assessments are not a condition for admission to the CSU; they are
a condition of enrollment.
These skills assessments are designed to inform entering freshmen of
placement in appropriate baccalaureate-level courses based on their
skills and needs.
First-time freshmen in need of support as determined by the skills
assessment will be placed in supported instruction. Supported
instruction is designed to assist students in credit bearing courses.
Students may also be required to participate in the Supportive Pathways
for First-Year Students Program.
The Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program offers
pathways and academic and social support that align with each
incoming student's needs. The program's goal is to ensure that first
time students successfully complete the General Education (GE) written
110 Baccalaureate Degrees and Undergraduate Studies
communication (A2) and math/quantitative reasoning (B4) requirements
within their first year.
Assessments and Placement for GE Written
Communication Has Fulfilled the GE Subarea A2 English
Requirement.
The student has met the requirement via completion of one the following:
Advanced Placement (AP) Test
• 3 or above: AP Language and Composition
• 3 or above: Composition and Literature
College Transfer Coursework
• Completed approved college course that satisfies CSU GE Area A2
(written communication) with a grade of C- or better
Placement in a GE Subarea A2 English Course
• The student has met examination standards and/or multiple
measures - informed standards via one of the criteria below:
English CASSPP/EAP Test:
• Standard Exceeded
• Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year long English
course (CSU ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade C- or
better
SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing Test:
• 550 or above
• 510-540 and completed 12th grade approved year-long English
course (CSU ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade C-or
better English
ACT Test:
• 22 or higher
• 19-21 and completed 12th grade approved year-long English course
(CSU, ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English) with grade C- or better
High School Course and GPA:
• Weighted GPA 3.3 or above
• GPA 3.0 or above and completed approved 12th grade year-long
English course (CSU, ERWC, AP, Weighted Honors English)
• GPA 3.0 or above and completed Honors English
• GPA 3.0 or above and 5 or ore years of high school English
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea A2 English Course
The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measures -
informed standards via one of the criteria below:
SAT Evidence-Based Reading and Writing Test:
• 510-540 and 4 or more year of high school English
ACT Test:
• 19-21 and 4 or more years of high school English
High School Courses and GPA
• Weighted GPA 3.0 or above and 4 or more years of high school
English
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea A2 English Course and Participation
in the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program.
Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional
academic support including participation in the Supportive Pathways
for First-Year Students Program. Visit csustudentsuccess.org (https://
csustudentsuccess.org/) to learn more about this program.
Assessments and Placement for GE Mathematics/
Quantitative Reasoning: Non-Math Intensive Majors
(Algebra and Statistics Disciplines, Non-STEM and
Exploring Students) Has Fulfilled the GE Subarea B4
Math/Quantitative Reasoning Requirement
The student has met the requirement via completion of one of the
following:
Advanced Placement (AP) Test:
• 3 or above: Calculus AB
• 3 or above on AP Calculus BC
• 3 or above on AP Statistics
• 3 or above on AP Computer Science Principles
International Baccalaureate (IB) Test:
• 4 or above on Math Higher Level (HL)
College Level Examination Program (CLEP):
• 50 or above on: Calculus, College Algebra, College AlgebraTrigonometry, Pre-Calculus or Trigonometry
College Transfer Coursework:
• Completed math/quantitative reasoning college course with a C- or
better that satisfies CSU GE Area B4
Placement in a GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning
RequiremenT
The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measuresinformed standards via one of the following criteria:
CAASPP/EAP Math Exam:
• Standard Exceeded
• Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year-long math
course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
• Standard Met and 4 or more years of high school math or quantitative
reasoning
SAT Math Test:
• 570 or above
• 520 – 560 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course
beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
ACT Math Test:
• 23 or above
• 20-22 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course
beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
High School Courses and GPA:
• Weighted math GPA 3.0 or above and completed 12th grade approved
year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
• Weighted math GPA 3.0 or above and 5 or more years of high school
math or quantitative reasoning
• Weighted high school GPA 3.7 or above
• Weighted high school GPA 3.5 or above and 4 or more years of high
school math or quantitative reasoning
2024-25 University Catalog 111
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative
Reasoning Requirement
The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measuresinformed standards via one of the criteria below:
High School GPA:
• Weighted math GPA 3.3 or above
• Weighted high school GPA 3.0 or above
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative
Reasoning Requirement AND PARTICIPATION IN THE DOMINGUEZ
HILLS FIRST-YEAR EXPERIENCE (dhfye) PROGRAM REQUIRED
Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional
academic support including participation in the Dominguez
Hills First-year Experience (DHFYE) Program. Visit the https://
csustudentsuccess.org/ to learn about this program.
Assessments and Placement for GE Mathematics/Quantitative
Reasoning: Pre-STEM/STEM and Other Math-Intensive Majors
has Fulfilled the GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning
Requirement
The student has met the requirement via completion of one of the
following:
Advanced Placement (AP) Test:
• 3 or above on AP Calculus AB
• 3 or above on AP Calculus BC
• 3 or above on AP Statistics
• 3 or above on AP Computer Science Principles
International Baccalaureate (IB) Test:
• 4 or above on Math Higher Level (HL)
College Level Examination Program (CLEP):
• 50 or above on: Calculus, College Algebra, College AlgebraTrigonometry, Pre-Calculus or Trigonometry
College Transfer Coursework:
• Completed math/quantitative reasoning college course with a C- or
better that satisfies CSU GE Area B4
Placement in a GE Subarea B4 Math/Quantitative Reasoning
Requirement
The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measuresinformed standards via one of the criteria below:
CAASPP/EAP Math Exam:
• Standard Exceeded
• Standard Met and completed 12th grade approved year-long math
course beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
SAT Math Test:
• 570 or above
• 520 – 560 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course
beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
ACT Math Test:
• 23 or above
• 20-22 and completed 12th grade approved year-long math course
beyond Algebra 2 with a C- or better
High School Courses and GPA:
• Weighted math GPA 3.5 or above and completed 12th grade approved
year-long math course beyond Algebra 2 with a grade of C- or better
• Weighted math GPA 3.5 or above and 5 or more years of high school
math or quantitative reasoning
• Weighted high school GPA 3.7 or above
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative
Reasoning Requirement
The student has met examination standards and/or multiple measuresinformed standards via the criteria below:
High School Math GPA:
• Weighted math GPA 3.3 or above
Placement in a Supported GE Subarea B4 Math/ Quantitative
Reasoning Requirement and Participation in the Dominguez hills
FIRST-YEAR EXPERIENCE (dhfye) Program Required
Based on multiple measures evaluation, student needs additional
academic support including participation in the DHFYE Program. Visit
https://csustudentsuccess.org/ to learn about this program.
• The goal of the Supportive Pathways for First-Year Students Program
(SPFYP) is to ensure that first-time students successfully complete
the General Education (GE) written communication (A2) and math/
quantitative reasoning (B4) requirements within their first year.
• Better prepare students in written composition and mathematics/
quantitative reasoning before the fall term of freshman year,
improving students' chances of successful completion of a
baccalaureate degree.
• For general information about Dominguez Hills First-Year Experience
(DHFYE) Program, visit the csustudentsuccess.org/supportivepathways (https://csustudentsuccess.org/supportive-pathwaysfirst-year-students-program/). Students are encouraged to visit the
university website for DHFYE information once admitted.
• Eligible financial aid applicants with an Estimated Family Contribution
(EFC) of $6,000 or less will be eligible for waiver of the per unit
DHFYE fee. For more information on assessments, placements
and the Dominguez Hills First-Year Experience Program, please
visit www.csustudentsuccess.org (https://csustudentsuccess.org/).
Academic Skills Assessment Plan (ASAP)
Students should consult an advisor upon entry to the university and
every semester thereafter. For information on G.E. and other University
undergraduate degree requirements (GWAR, units, academic status,
statutory requirements), students need to contact an advisor in their
College's Student Success Center. Students with declared majors and
minors also need to consult the appropriate department(s).
Academic Skills Requirements for
Undergraduate Students
Students Admitted to CSUDH Fall 1998
and After
New students enrolled at the University, fall 2018 and after are subject
to the revisions to E.O. 665 contained in E.O. 1110 (2017). Effective with
this executive order, the English Placement Test (EPT) and the EntryLevel Mathematics (ELM) Test shall not be offered, and the EPT and ELM
committees are discontinued.
Freshman skills assessment and placement for general education
written communication and mathematics/quantitative reasoning shall
be based on systemwide skills assessment standards that include the
112 GWAR-Certifying Courses
Early Assessment Program/ Smarter Balanced Achievement Levels, ACT
scores and/or SAT scores, high school coursework, high school GPA and
math GPA.
Skills assessments are not a condition for admission to the CSU; they
are a condition of enrollment. These skills assessments are designed to
inform entering freshmen of placement in appropriate baccalaureate-level
courses based on their skills and needs.
First-time freshmen in need of support as determined by the skills
assessment will be placed in supported instruction. Supported
instruction is designed to assist students in credit bearing courses.
Students may also be required to participate in the Early Start Program.
The Early Start Program gives students the opportunity to earn college
credit in written communication and mathematics/ quantitative
reasoning the summer before their first term.
Students are no longer subject to Academic Skills Assessment Plan
(ASAP) "probation" or "disqualification.
New students enrolled at the University between fall 1998 and spring
2018, are subject to System-wide Placement Test and remedial English
and mathematics class requirements (E.O. 665). Non-exempt students
must take the English Placement Test (EPT) and the Entry Level
Mathematics (ELM) examination before registering for classes. If test
results show that remedial courses in English or mathematics are
needed, students must:
• Enroll in required remedial classes the first semester of attendance
and thereafter;
• Pass all remedial classes in two semesters.
After two semesters, students cannot register or continue to attend
classes at CSU, Dominguez Hills if all required remedial classes (ENG 88
/ENG 99 and MAT 3 /MAT 9 ) are not passed.
Furthermore, students are subject to Academic Skills Assessment Plan
(ASAP) "probation" if they do not pass General Education level English
(ENG 110 (https://catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=ENG%20110) Freshman
Composition Accelerated and ENG 111 (https://catalog.csudh.edu/
search/?P=ENG%20111) Freshman Composition II) and mathematics
(MAT 105 (https://catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=MAT%20105) Finite
Mathematics or equivalent) in four semesters.
Finally, students are subject to ASAP "disqualification" from the University
if they do not pass General Education level English (ENG 110 (https://
catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=ENG%20110) Freshman Composition
Accelerated and ENG 111 (https://catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=ENG
%20111) Freshman Composition II) and mathematics (MAT 105 (https://
catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=MAT%20105) Finite Mathematics or
equivalent) classes in six semesters.
For additional information and support, students should contact the
Student Success Center that houses their major or minor department.
Please consult the undergraduate catalog entry for undergraduate
academic advisement at CSUDH for a list of these centers with contact
details. Students Admitted to CSUDH before Fall 1998.
Students Admitted to CSUDH before Fall
1998
Non-exempt students admitted and enrolled before fall 1998 are subject
to Academic Skills Assessment Plan (ASAP) guidelines for completion
of the English Placement Test (EPT), the Entry Level Mathematics (ELM)
examination, required remedial English and math classes, and General
Education level English and math classes.
Students are subject to ASAP "probation" if they do not take the EPT and
ELM and pass all required remedial English classes (ENG 88 and ENG 99
) and mathematics classes (MAT 3 and MAT 9 ) within two semesters.
Students may be ASAP "disqualified" from the University if they do not
meet these requirements and classes in four semesters.
Additionally, students are subject to ASAP "probation" if they do not
pass General Education level classes in English (ENG 110 (https://
catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=ENG%20110) Freshman Composition
Accelerated and ENG 111 (https://catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=ENG
%20111) Freshman Composition II) and mathematics (MAT 105 (https://
catalog.csudh.edu/search/?P=MAT%20105) Finite Mathematics or
equivalent) in four semesters. Students may be ASAP "disqualified" from
the University if they do not pass the General Education level classes in
six semesters.
For additional information and support, students should contact the
Student Success Center that houses their major or minor department.
Please consult the undergraduate catalog entry for undergraduate
academic advisement at CSUDH for a list of these centers with contact
details.
GWAR-Certifying Courses
Graduation Requirement in Writing
Proficiency (GWAR)
The California State University requires that all undergraduate students
demonstrate competency in writing skills at the upper division level as a
requirement for graduation.
Undergraduate students must first complete their lower division English
composition courses in Area A, General Education, before attempting to
complete this upper-division requirement. Fulfillment of GWAR should be
undertaken at the beginning of the junior year (or 60 units) and can be
met by completing an upper-division GWAR-certifying course in the major
or a closely related major. Many departments and programs offer GWARcertifying courses for their majors. Students should contact their major
department to determine if such a course is offered. Students must earn
a grade of C or higher to satisfy the GWAR.
Those students whose major department does not offer an upper-division
GWAR-certifying course may elect to take one of the following after
consulting with their major department:
• BIO 490 Senior Project
• BPH 340 Experimental Biophysics
• BUS 445 International Business
• CDV 320 Mthd & Analysis in Child Study
• CHE 360 Writing in Chemical Sciences
• CHS 300 Critical Issues in Chicana/Chicano Studies
• CJA 339 Research Methods and Communication in Criminal Justice
Administration
• CLS 307 Clinical Hematology
• ENG 317 Black English Language and Culture
• ENG 350 Advanced Composition: The English Department regularly
offers this GWAR-certifying course. Students must earn a grade of C
or higher to satisfy the GWAR requirement.
2024-25 University Catalog 113
• ENG 490 Seminar in Literature
• HIS 400 Proseminar in History
• HUS 310 Helping and Professional Relationships
• IDS 397 Writing Adjunct/IDS 398 Writing Adjunct (Competency
Certification) (Students must complete both course to receive GWAR
credit)
• IDS 490 Interdisciplinary Studies Senior Seminar
• KIN 330 Sport and Exercise Psychology
• LBS 370 Multicultural Studies
• MUS 486 Music History III: 1880 to Contemporary
• POL 300 Research Design in Political Science
• PUB 306 Research Methods in Public Administration
• SOC 309 Writing Skills in Sociology
• WMS 490 Senior Capstone
Transfer Certification
Students who have satisfied the Graduation Writing Assessment
Requirement (GWAR) at another CSU campus in 1984 or later, but prior
to matriculation at CSU, Dominguez Hills, may petition for fulfillment of
GWAR at CSUDH. Students must complete a Petition for Fulfillment of
GWAR (https://www.csudh.edu/mpa/student-services/forms/), attaching
a copy of the certifying test score or copy of an official transcript and the
catalog description of the pertinent coursework.
General Education Requirements for
Undergraduate Students
General Education Program
Students must follow the appropriate General Education (G.E.) pattern.
Students who have maintained continuous attendance at any
combination of CSU, UC, or California community college under an earlier
catalog may elect to complete the G.E. pattern in effect at the time of:
1. entrance into CSUDH;
2. graduation or;
3. entrance into a California community college or state university.
Contact an advisor in your college's Student Success Center for further
information.
The General Education
1
program is divided into the following areas and
includes 49 total semester units:
Area A - English Language Communication and Critical Thinking (9 units)
all courses in this area require a grade of "C-" or higher
Area B - Natural Sciences & Quantitative Reasoning (13 units)
math courses in this area require a grade of “C-” or higher
Area C - Arts and Humanities (12 units)
Area D - Social Sciences (9 units)
Area E - Lifelong Learning and Self-Development (3 units)
Area F - Ethnic Studies (3 units)
1
Students must take nine units of G.E. courses in residence at CSUDH.
Requirements (49 units)
General Education Residence Requirement: The California State
University System requires all students to complete 9 semester units in
general education at the campus from which they graduate. Following
is the list of courses that are offered in the General Education program.
These courses fulfill the objectives stated in the program description. For
complete course descriptions, refer to those sections of the University
Catalog that describe the programs offering the courses. All Area A
courses and the Quantitative Reasoning requirement in Area B must
be passed with a grade of "C-" or higher. A grade point average of 2.0
calculated at graduation, is required for the entire General Education
Pattern.
Area A. English Language Communication
and Critical Thinking (9 units required)
Complete one course from each of the following categories (A1, A2,
A3): 1
A1. Oral Communication (3 units):
Code Title Hours
THE 120 Fundamentals of Speech 3
A2. Written Communication (3 units):
Code Title Hours
ENG 108
& ENG 109
Freshman Composition I: Stretch 1
and Freshman Composition I: Stretch 2
*
6
ENG 110 Freshman Composition Accelerated 3
ENG 112 Freshman Composition Supported 3
* If stretch course option is selected, completion of both ENG 108 and
109 is required to satisfy A2. ENG 108 must be completed with a grade of
CR. ENG 109 must be completed with a grade of "C-" or higher.
A3. Logical/Critical Reasoning (3 units):
Code Title Hours
CSC 121 Introduction to Computer Science and
Programming I
2
4
MAT 271 Foundations Of Higher Math 3
PHI 120 Critical Reasoning 3
PSY 110 Critical Thinking and Problem Solving 3
PHI 220 Symbolic Logic 3
1
Courses in area A and area B4 must be passed with a grade of "C-" or
higher.
2 Meets Area A3 for the following programs, BA Computer Technology,
BS Computer Science and BS Information Technology
Area B. Scientific Inquiry and Quantitative
Reasoning (13 units required)
Complete one course from each of the categories (B1, B2, B3, B4, B5):2
B1. Physical Science (3 units):
Code Title Hours
CHE 102 Chemistry For The Citizen 3
CHE 110 General Chemistry I
3
5
114 General Education Requirements for Undergraduate Students
EAR 100 Physical Geology 3
GEO 200 Physical Geography 3
PHY 100 Patterns In Nature 3
PHY 120 Elements Of Physics I 4
4
PHY 130 General Physics I 5
5
3
Students majoring or minoring in one of the natural sciences (Biology,
Biochemistry, Biophysics, Chemistry, or Physics) may substitute
more advanced science courses. These students should see a faculty
advisor.
4 Meets area B1 and B3 for the following programs only: BS
Biochemistry, BA Chemistry: Biochemistry Option, BA Chemistry:
General Chemistry Option, BS Chemistry, BA Biology, BS Biology, Minor
in Biology, Minor in Microbiology, Minor in Organic/Biochemistry, BS
in Clinical Science, BS in Earth Science, BA in Physical Education: PrePhysical Therapy Option, BS in Physics
5 Meets Area B1 and B3 for the following programs only: BS
Biochemistry, BA Biology, BS Biology, BA Chemistry: Biochemistry
Option, BS Earth Science, BA Physical Education: Pre-Physical Therapy
Option, BS Quality Assurance
6 Meets Area B1 and B3 for the following programs only: BS
Biochemistry, BS Biology, BA Chemistry: Biochemistry Option, BA
Chemistry: General Chemistry Option, BS Chemistry, BS Computer
Science, BS Mathematics, BS Physics, Minor in Physics
B2. Natural Sciences in Life Science (3 units):
Code Title Hours
ANT 101 Intro to Biological Anthro 3
BIO 102 General Biology 3
BIO 120 Principles of Biology I 6
3
BIO 122 Principles of Biology II 7
3
7 Meets Area B2 for the following programs only: BS Biochemistry, BA
Biology, BS Biology, Minor in Biology, Minor in Microbiology, BS in
Clinical Science, BS Earth Science, BA Physical Education: Pre-Physical
Therapy Option
8 Meets Are B2 for the following programs only: BS Biochemistry, Ba
Biology, BS Biology, Minor in Microbiology, BS Clinical Science, BS Earth
Science
B3. Natural Sciences in Science Laboratory (1 units):
Code Title Hours
BIO 103 General Biology Laboratory
8
1
BIO 121 Principles of Biology Laboratory I
9
1
BIO 123 Principles of Biology Laboratory II
10 1
CHE 103 Chemistry Lab for the Global Citizen 1
EAR 101 Physical Geology Laboratory
11 1
9
Concurrent enrollment in BIO 102 General Biology or prior life science
course recommended.
10 Meets Area B3 for the following programs only: BS in Biochemistry, BS
Biology, Minor in Biology , Minor in Microbiology, BS Clinical Science,
BS Earth Science, BA Physical Education: Pre Physical-Therapy
Option
11 Meets Area B3 for the following programs only: BS Biochemistry, BA
Biology, BS Biology, Minor in Microbiology, BS in Clinical Science, BS
Earth Science
12 Concurrent enrollment in EAR 100 Physical Geology or prior earth
science course recommended.
B4. Quantitative Reasoning and Problem Solving (3
units):  1
Code Title Hours
MAT 105 Finite Mathematics 3
MAT 131 Elementary Statistics and Probability 3
MAT 132 Statistics and Probability with Support 4
MAT 134 Statistics & Probability - Supported 4
MAT 151 College Algebra and Trigonometry 4
MAT 153 Pre-Calculus with Trigonometry with Lab 4
MAT 155 Pre-Calculus 4
MAT 171 Survey of Calculus for Management and Life
Sciences
4
MAT 191 Calculus I 5
MAT 193 Calculus II 5
1
Courses in area A and area B4 must be passed with a grade of "C-" or
higher.
B5. Integrative Studies in the Natural Sciences (3 units):
Code Title Hours
BIO 336 Environmental Biology 3
BIO 340 Genetics 3
BSN 346 Human Pathophysiology
12 3
CSC 301 Computers And Society 3
EAR 312 Natural Disasters 3
EAR 416 Earth Science for Teachers 3
HEA 466 Environmental Health Problems 3
IDS 310 Global Climate Change 3
LBS 380 Blended Science Methods 4
SMT 310 Science and Technology 3
SMT 314 Introduction to Cosmology 3
SMT 410 Development of Scientific Thinking and Theories 3
SMT 416 Earth Science For Teacher 3
13 Course restricted to Nursing majors
Area C. Arts and Humanities (12 units
required)
Complete one course from each of the following categories (C1, C2, C3)
and one additional lower division course from area C1 or C2 (4 courses
total):
C1. Arts Courses (3 - 6 units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 205 Introduction to Hip Hop 3
APP 225 Pacific Islander Culture in Oceania and the U.S. 3
ART 100 Looking At Art 3
ART 101 Experiencing Creative Art 3
COM 130 Introduction to Film 3
DAN 130 Global Dance Perspectives 3
2024-25 University Catalog 115
ENG 271 Introduction to Creative Writing 3
MUS 101 Introducing Music 3
MUS 110 Music Fundamentals 3
MUS 201 Music in Film: From the Silent Era to The Lord of
the Rings
3
MUS 250 History of Rock 3
THE 100 Television Film & Theatre 3
THE 160 Acting For Non-Majors 3
WMS 330 Queer Art and Visual Culture 3
C2. Letters Courses (3 - 6 units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 200 Intro to Africana Studies 3
APP 101 Introduction To Asian Studies 3
CHS 100 Chicana/o Cultural Roots 3
CHS 205 Introduction to Chicana/o Literature 3
COM 100 Media & Society 3
ENG 230 Literature and Popular Culture 3
FRE 220 Second Year French 3
HUM 204 Introduction to the Humanities 3
JPN 110 Beginning Japanese I 3
JPN 111 Beginning Japanese II 3
LBR 202 Class Struggles in Film and Popular Culture 3
PHI 101 Moral Problems 3
PHI 102 Humanity, Nature & God 3
PHI 201 The Good Life 3
PHI 202 The Devil You Don't Know 3
SPA 151 Introduction to Hispanic Culture 3
SPA 221 Intermediate Spanish II 3
WMS 100 Gender, Sex, the Body, & Politics: An Introduction 3
WMS 410 Queer of Color Critique 3
C3. Integrative Studies in the Humanities (3 units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 331 Key Movements: African Literature and Culture 3
AFS 332 Key Movements: Harlem Renaissance 3
AFS 333 Black Movements of the Sixties 3
AFS 334 African Culture and Art 3
APP 314 Asian Americans and the Media 3
APP 315 Asian Pop Culture and Globalization 3
APP 325 Asian Pacific Art, Music and Literature 3
APP 339 Asian Diaspora and Transnational Asian Religions 3
APP 343 Asian Pacific Film & Literature 3
ARH 370 Art and Social Protest 3
CHS 340 Native American and Chicana Women's Narrative 3
CHS 345 Latina/o Identities in the Americas 3
ENG 308 Critical Approaches to Children's Literature 3
ENG 360 Heroes and Antiheroes 3
ENG 362 Environment in Literature & Culture 3
ENG 364 Literary Utopia 3
HIS 355 American Civil Rights History 3
HIS 375 Pop Culture in History 3
HIS 376 Film As History 3
HUM 300 Health Humanities 3
HUM 301 Mind/Brain and the Arts 3
HUM 302 Lives of Faust: Deals with the Devil 3
HUM 303 All Creatures Great & Small: Animals from Sacred
to Endangered
3
HUM 304 Vampires 3
HUM 305 Never Lose Infinite Hope: Imagining Justice,
Cultivating Mental Wellness
3
HUM 310 Key Concepts 3
HUM 312 Key Movements 3
HUM 314 Key Issues 3
IDS 312 Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Humanities 3
LBR 310 Success and Values 3
LBR 312 Decade of the Sixties 3
LBR 314 Key Issues: American Dream 3
MUS 302 African American Music 3
MUS 312 The Jazz Age 3
MUS 345 Global Popular Music: Identity and Social Change 3
MUS 486 Music History III: 1880 to Contemporary 3
NCR 390 Fundamentals of Conflict Resolution and
Peacebuilding
3
PHI 351 Death and Dying 3
PHI 352 Myth as Reality 3
PHI 353 Age of Revolt 3
PHI 383 Comparative Religions 3
SPA 310 Romantic Love in the Western Tradition 3
SPA 312 Hispanic Literature, Art and Culture 3
SPA 313 Encountering the Other 3
THE 313 Voices of Contemporary Women Playwrights 3
THE 315 Key Concepts: The American Musical 3
THE 317 Theatre of Revolt 3
THE 319 The Power of Masks 3
WMS 310 The Witch in Literature 3
WMS 311 Comedy, Sex and Gender 3
WMS 314 Feminism and Film 3
WMS 315 Literary Topics in Gender Studies and Sexuality
Studies
3
WMS 380 Gender and Sexuality in Popular Culture 3
Area D. Area of the Social Sciences (9
units required)
Complete one course from each of the following categories (D1, D2,
D3). Courses must be taken from more than one department (e.g., if you
satisfy D1 and D2 with anthropology courses, then D3 category cannot be
satisfied with an anthropology course. At least one area D course must be
from a different department).
D1. Perspectives on Individuals, Groups and Society (3
units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 220 African World Peoples & Soc. 3
ANT 100 Introduction to Cultural Anthropology 3
CDV 150 Intro Child Development 3
116 General Education Requirements for Undergraduate Students
ECO 200 Contemporary Econ Issues 3
ECO 210 Economic Theory 1A Micro 3
ECO 211 Economic Theory 1B Macro 3
IDS 210 Introduction to Environmental Studies 3
LAW 240 Legal Environment of Business 3
LBR 101 Introduction to Labor Studies: Work, Wealth and
Power
3
LBS 205 Child and Adolescent Development 3
NCR 291 Psychology of Peacebuilding 3
PSY 101 General Education Psychology: Understanding
Human Behavior
3
SOC 101 The Individual In Society 3
SOC 102 Understanding Social Relationships in a Global
Perspective
3
WMS 200 Foundations in Queer Studies 3
WMS 250 Foundations in Women's Studies 3
D2. Global and Historical Perspectives (3 units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 201 African World Civilizations 3
ANT 102 Ancient Civilizations 3
CHS 200 Introduction to Chicana/o and Latina/o History 3
ENG 150 Languages of the World 3
GEO 100 Human Geography 3
HIS 120 World History I 3
HIS 121 World History II 3
LBR 200 Labor and the Environment 3
MGT 200 Global Organizational Ethics and Social
Responsibility
3
POL 100 General Education Political Science: World
Perspectives
3
D3. Integrative Studies in the Social Sciences (3 units):
Code Title Hours
AFS 310 The African American Experience in the US 3
AFS 311 Afro Latinidad & the Caribbean 3
AFS 312 Cultural Pluralism: Ethnic & Global Society 3
ANT 312 Language And Culture 3
ANT 330 North American Indians 3
ANT 334 Mesoamerica Past and Present 3
ANT 336 Comparative Cultures: Culture, Environment and
Globalization
3
ANT 337 Ethnography and Film 3
ANT 338 Mainland Southeast Asia 3
ANT 342 South America 3
ANT 371 Historical and Cultural Perspectives in Disability
Studies
3
APP 311 Contemporary Issues in Asian American
Communities
3
APP 318 Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Lao Americans:
Culture, History, and Identity
3
APP 327 Values and Communication of Asian Pacific
Cultures
3
APP 335 Asian Pacific Culinary Culture 3
APP 350 Asian-Pacific Gender and Family 3
BSN 306 Cult Diversity Healthcare
13 3
CHS 323 Latina/o Perspectives on U.S. Immigration and
Citizenship
3
CHS 330 Latina/o Identities in U.S. 3
CHS 335 Urban Youth Gangs in Los Angeles 3
GEO 318 Cultural Pluralism The Human Environment:
Methods of Knowledge and Truth
3
HEA 468 Multicultural Health 3
HIS 340 American West 3
HIS 348 Labor In American Society 3
HIS 352 Topics in United States Foreign Relations History 3
HIS 354 History of American Immigration 3
HIS 356 American Environmental History: American
Environment from Pre-Contact (prior to 1500) to
the Present
3
HIS 380 Women In History 3
IDS 304 Issues in Global Studies 3
IDS 318 Interdisciplinary Approach to Cultural Pluralism 3
ITC 300 Security in a Digital Society 3
LBR 313 The Future of Workers and Work 3
LBR 316 Working Class and Education 3
LBR 350 Research Methods for Social Change 3
LBR 365 Racial Capitalism 3
LBS 370 Multicultural Studies 5
MLG 318 New Perspectives on Language and Sex 3
NCR 391 Restorative Justice 3
POL 350 History of Political Ideas 3
POL 351 Modern Political Thought 3
POL 354 American Political Thought 3
SBS 318 Cultural Pluralism: 3
SPA 318 Movements of Latin America 3
WMS 318 Race, Class and Gender 3
WMS 340 Politics of Women's (Un)Paid Labor 3
WMS 390 Transnational Feminisms 3
13 Restricted to Nursing Majors
Area E. Lifelong Learning and SelfDevelopment (3 units)
Select one of the following:
Code Title Hours
BUS 100 Entrepreneurship For Everyone 3
CIS 275 Internet Literacy 3
ENG 107 Reading & Writing LA 3
FIN 200 Personal Finance for Non-Finance Majors 3
HEA 100 Health & Lifestyles 3
HEA 104 Food, Health and Environment 3
HEA 201 Healthcare Systems and Perspectives 3
KIN 235 Lifetime Fitness 3
LIB 151 Fundamentals of Information Literacy 3
LBR 201 Work/Life: Purpose, Power, and Identity 3
2024-25 University Catalog 117
REC 100 Dimensions Of Leisure 3
UNV 101 Personal, Social and Intellectual Development 3
Area F. Ethnic Studies (3 units)
Select one of the following. May be fulfilled by approved upper division.
Code Title Hours
AFS 100 The African American Experience 3
AFS 212 Intro To Comp Eth & Global Soc 3
AFS 231 Africana Literary Traditions 3
APP 201 Introduction to Asian American Studies 3
APP 212 Introduction to Comparative Ethnic and Global
Societies
3
CHS 125 Chicano/Latino Musical Culture 3
CHS 212 Introduction to Comparative Ethnic Studies 3
Statutory Requirement (6 units)
Students must satisfy requirements in U.S. history and U.S. and
California government by completing the following:
Code Title Hours
HIS 101 History Of United States (or articulated course at a
California Community College or examination)
3
POL 101 American Institutions 3
Total Hours 6
General Education Certification
Accredited community colleges and public four-year colleges may
sanction (certify) that all or part of General Education requirements (post
1980), have been met. Transfer students with complete certification
of California State University General Education breadth requirements
or the CSU version of the Intersegmental General Education Transfer
Curriculum (IGETC) requirements are not required to complete additional
lower division courses in general education. Transfer students should
request General Education certification from their community colleges.
An additional nine semester units of upper division General Education
courses must be completed at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Double Counting General Education
Courses
General Education courses may be double-counted in either the major
or the minor. Even though students may double-count certain General
Education courses, they will not receive additional unit credit towards
graduation by double-counting. For example, a double-counted course
counts three units (not six) towards graduation. Please consult the
University Catalog and/or an academic advisor for more information.
Credit for Remediation
Undergraduate students may enroll in college preparatory course work
(001-099) for credit, but the credit will not be counted as part of the
120-132 units required for graduation. Students will be allowed to enroll
in college preparatory courses only if their performance on a screening
test indicates pre-collegiate work is necessary. Students are not allowed
to challenge college preparatory courses. Remedial courses will be
offered on a "CR/NC" basis only. For further information regarding
courses that may be considered as college preparatory, students should
consult their advisor or the University Advisement Center (WH A-220).
General Education
All students graduating from CSU Dominguez Hills are required to
complete 49 semester units in General Education, distributed as follows:
1. 9 semester units of English Language, Communication and Critical
Thinking
2. 10 semester units of Natural Sciences and Quantitative Reasoning;
3. 12 semester units of Arts and Humanities;
4. 9 semester units of Social Science;
5. 3 semester units of Objectives for Lifelong Learning and SelfDevelopment; and
6. 3 semester units of Ethnic Studies.
At least 9 semester units must be earned at CSU Dominguez Hills
(see separate General Education (https://catalog.csudh.edu/generalinformation/general-education-requirements-undergraduate-students/)
section.)
Certification of General Education Lower
Division Credit
Accredited postsecondary colleges and universities offering the B.A.
or B.S., or the first two years of such degree programs, may certify
completion of the lower division General Education requirements
according to procedures specified in CSU Executive Order 1100. An
additional nine semester units of upper division General Education
courses must be completed at CSU Dominguez Hills. (See "General
Education (p. 113)" section of this catalog.)
Double Counting of General Education
Courses
General Education courses may be double-counted in either the major
or the minor. Even though students may double-count certain General
Education courses, they will not receive additional unit credit towards
graduation by double-counting. For example, a double-counted course
counts three units (not six) towards graduation.
Major and Minor
All students must complete a major as one of the university requirements
for graduation. Departments that offer single field majors do not require
a minor; however, those majors not designated as single field may require
completion of a minor as part of their major requirements. In each major
or minor field, a grade point average of 2.0 (C) or better is required.
No course may count in both the major and minor unless it is a
prerequisite for both. If upper division course requirements overlap,
additional courses may need to be taken to fulfill unit requirements of
both the major and minor. A student should see his/her advisor to make
substitutions.
Double Major or Minor
A student may complete an additional minor or second major. Units
used to satisfy the requirements for an additional major or minor cannot
have been used in the first major or minor. The student shall declare
the second major or minor at the time the Application for Graduation is
118 Unit Requirements
filed and have the appropriate advisement form submitted. Whenever
a double major is used to satisfy graduation requirements, the upper
division courses must not overlap. The completion of an additional major
or minor will be noted on the official transcript. A student who completes
requirements for two majors under a single degree, BA or BS, may have
both majors recorded on the diploma. A student who completes two
majors leading to different degrees, for example, philosophy (BA) and
public administration (BS), must declare one major as the degree major,
in order to determine the appropriate degree to be awarded and notation
for the diploma. A student will not be granted two diplomas and two
degrees, as distinguished from two majors, at the same time. Note: The
residency requirement for a second major is the same as for the primary
major: 12 upper division units at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Double Concentration
A student may complete a double concentration but only the primary
concentration will be printed on the transcript and diploma.
Same Field Major and Minor
Students may major and minor in the same field as long as a minimum
of 12 units is unique to the minor and not double counted in the major.
Course substitutions may be allowed for any course that is in both the
major and the minor with appropriate departmental approval.
Special Major
The University offers a special major at both the undergraduate and
graduate level. A student seeking this degree has the opportunity to
engage in individualized courses of study when appropriate academic
and professional goals are not accommodated by standard campus
degree programs. For further information, see "Special Major" in the
"Academic Programs (p. 43)" section of this catalog.
Substitutions and Waivers of Course
Requirements
Any requests for substitutions or waivers of major/minor course
requirements should be directed to the department chair or program
coordinator.
Grade Point Average Requirements
A minimum grade point average of 2.0 is required for:
1. all units attempted at CSU Dominguez Hills;
2. all units attempted (combination of CSU Dominguez Hills units and
transfer units);
3. all units attempted for the major;
4. all units attempted for the minor or thematic project;
5. all units attempted for the major in a single field;
6. all units attempted for the double major;
7. all courses in General Education Area A must be passed with a grade
of "C" or higher. In all other areas, a grade point average of 2.0 for
all courses used in General Education, calculated at graduation, is
required.
Unit Requirements
A minimum of 120 semester units is required for the bachelor's degree.
Upper Division Units
A minimum of 40 semester units of upper division credit must be
completed.
Residence Units
A minimum of 30 semester units must be completed in residence at
CSU Dominguez Hills, of which 24 shall be earned in upper division
courses and 12 upper division units shall be in the major. When a minor is
declared, at least one-half of all upper division units earned for the minor
must be completed in residence at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Credit by examination may not be used to fulfill the minimum residence
requirement.
Up to 24 units of coursework taken in non-matriculated status
through Open University may be used to fulfill the minimum residency
requirement.
Credit received in summer session or January session at CSU Dominguez
Hills may be counted as residence credit.
At least nine units of General Education must be completed at CSU
Dominguez Hills.
Electives
In addition to the General Education course requirements and the majorminor course requirements, additional courses as elective units may be
required to complete the minimum 120 unit requirement for graduation.
Electives chosen by the student to complete the minimum requirements
for graduation may be selected to broaden general education and
vocational interests.
Undergraduate Academic Advisement
Good academic advising is a key to obtaining the best college education
possible – an education that is intellectually stimulating, supportive of
the student's career goals, and personally meaningful and rewarding.
Good advising represents a partnership in which student and advisor
use their respective expertise to facilitate the student's learning and
decision-making. This section of the University Catalog will describe the
major aspects of the advising system at CSU Dominguez Hills. Read the
entire section to gain an understanding of the overall system and then
concentrate on the particular subsections of greatest relevance to your
advising needs.
For new students, the advising process should include participation in
a New Student Orientation. This orientation will introduce key campus
administrators and services and fellow students; provide an overview
of graduation requirements; facilitate course selection by providing the
opportunity to work with an academic advisor; answer any questions;
and, perhaps most importantly, make it more likely to develop those
campus bonds which lead to a rewarding and successful college
education.
It is highly recommended that each student meet with an advisor at least
once each semester and strive for comprehensive advising. Advising
goals vary, but comprehensive advising will:
1. provide a context for students to formulate, develop and achieve their
educational goals;
2024-25 University Catalog 119
2. support integration of student learning experiences; and
3. encourage maximum attainment of individual student potential.
Students should contact their Student Success Center in order to make
an advising appointment or, alternatively, login to the Toro Success
Collaborative portal to directly book an appointment with an advisor
in their Student Success Center. Please see the end of this catalog
section for a list of each of the Student Success Centers and the colleges
and major programs they serve. Students who have yet to declare a
major at CSUDH may either select a center from this list based on their
interests, or alternatively, login to the Toro Success Collaborative portal to
directly book an appointment with an advisor who works with exploring
students. Please note, transfer students should bring their Academic
Requirement Report as well as previous transcripts with them when first
seeking advisement. The Academic Requirement Report is an easy tool
which allows you to identify outstanding requirements for graduation.
The Academic Requirement Report uses a simple color-coded system.
Every student should access their Academic Requirement Report every
semester.
Advisors will assist students in planning their academic programs, but
students ultimately are responsible for meeting all prerequisites and
requirements of the degree program.
Students are also urged to read the information under "Counseling
Programs" and to avail themselves of the many types of personal and
career guidance that are available at the University.
Pre-admission and Admissions Advising
New students wanting information about college life or to begin the
application process, should contact Outreach and School Relations, WH
C-245, (310) 243-3696. All questions about admissions requirements,
transfer of previous course work, application deadlines, and other parts of
the application process should be directed to this office.
Information concerning the academic programs, instructional facilities
and faculty at CSU Dominguez Hills may be obtained from Outreach and
School Relations or the appropriate academic department(s).
Required Advising Sessions
There are three times when a student is required to seek advisement and
obtain an advisor's written approval prior to registration:
• Upon first entering the University.
• At the beginning of the junior year (60 semester units).
• At the beginning of the senior year (90 semester units).
In addition to the above three times, many departments or programs
require additional advising sessions. Use the following guidelines:
• Declared majors - Students should check with their major department
to determine policy.
• Exploring Students - Students must obtain advising from one of the
Student Success Centers (see below).
• Educational Opportunity Program (EOP) - Such students must obtain
advising from an EOP academic advisor.
• Admission Exceptions (Special Admits) - For their first year on
campus, Special Admits must obtain advising at their Student
Success Center (see below)
• Students who find themselves on Academic Notice (see policy on
academic disqualification)
Failure to obtain the required advising will prevent the student from
registering for classes.
Department Advisors
In addition to advisement provided through the Student Success Centers,
many academic departments have faculty, who serve as academic
advisors / mentors for their program. These faculty advisors are available
throughout the academic year, and students are urged to meet with an
advisor at least once each semester in addition to any required advising
sessions. Students can learn more about which programs have faculty
advisors either through their program of study or by discussing with their
academic advisor in their Student Success Center.
Students should bring their Academic Requirement Report and
transcripts of all college work when seeking advisement. In the advising
sessions, the student and the advisor develop a proposed course of study
for the student based on his/her interests, and educational and career
objectives. Together they check the student's progress toward graduation
and discuss matters relevant to the student's education.
To obtain an appointment with a departmental advisor, students should
contact the appropriate department or college office, or, alternatively,
contact the appropriate Student Success Center below.
Obtaining an Academic Advisor
Use the following guidelines for obtaining an academic advisor:
Declared Majors and Minors
Declared majors and minors should contact the Student Success Center
that houses their major or minor department to obtain an advisor (see
below). Students should bring their Academic Requirement Report to all
meetings with an advisor.
Exploring Students
Students who have yet to declare a major at CSUDH may either select a
Student Success Center based on their interests, or alternatively, login to
the Toro Success Collaborative portal to directly book an appointment
with an advisor who works with exploring students
Special Majors and Minors
Special Majors and Minors should contact the Office of Academic
Programs, WH-440 (310) 243-3308.
Educational Opportunity Program (EOP)
Educational Opportunity Program students must contact the EOP Office,
WH D-350, (310) 243-3632.
List of Student Success Centers
College of Arts and Humanities Student Success Center
Office: LIB 5515
University Library, North Building, Fifth Floor
Email (cahsuccess@csudh.edu) | Website (https://www.csudh.edu/cah/
ssc/) | (310) 243-3264 
College of Business Administration and Public Policy Student Success
Center
Office: I&I 1100, 3400
Innovation & Instruction Building, First & Third Floor
120 Undergraduate Enrollment Policies
Email (cbappundergrad@csudh.edu) | Website (https://www.csudh.edu/
cbapp/student-services/academic-advising/undergraduate-advisementcenter-and-student-support/) | (310) 243-3561
College of Education Student Success Center
Office: COE 1401
College of Education Building
Email (coe_success@csudh.edu) | Website (https://www.csudh.edu/
liberal-studies/advising-support/) | (310) 243-2276
College of Health, Human Services and Nursing Student Success Center
Office: WH A210
Welch Hall Building, Second Floor
Email (chhsnadvising@csudh.edu) | Website (https://www.csudh.edu/
chhsn/chhsn-student-success-center/) | (310) 243-2120
College of Natural and Behavioral Sciences Student Success Center
Office: SBS A306 
Social and Behavioral Sciences Building, Third Floor
Email (cnbsadvising@csudh.edu) | Website (https://www.csudh.edu/
cnbs/student-success-center/) | (310) 243-3535
Undergraduate Enrollment Policies
Class Level
Undergraduate students are assigned a class level according to the
following plan:
Lower Division
Freshman: 0 - 29 semester units
Sophomore: 30 - 59 semester units
Upper Division
Junior: 60 - 89 semester units
Senior: 90 or more semester units
Credit by Examination
Students may challenge courses by taking examinations developed at
CSU Dominguez Hills. Credit shall be awarded to those who pass them
successfully.
General Conditions
1. A registered student may receive credit by examination for courses in
which he/she is eligible to enroll.
2. The student should contact the office of the appropriate department
to initiate the procedure.
3. Each department will maintain a current listing of courses that may or
may not be taken as credit by examination.
4. The student will select a traditional letter grade or CR/NC option, in
accordance with policies applicable to regular course enrollment.
5. Credit by examination will not be given for course work that an
academic department deems inappropriate or impossible to evaluate.
6. The same course can be taken only once as credit by examination.
7. Credit by examination will not be given for a course if the student has
already received credit for a similar but more advanced course.
8. Units earned by credit by examination may not be used to fulfill the
minimum residence requirement.
Procedure for Courses Listed in the Class Schedule
1. The student enrolls in the course by the end of the first week of the
semester.
2. The student completes a "Petition for Credit by Examination" form
obtained from the Office of Admissions and Records and submits it to
the department chair by the second week of classes.
3. The department verifies the student's eligibility for credit by
examination, approves or denies the petition, and notifies the student.
If approved, an examination appointment is scheduled prior to the
end of the second week of the semester.
4. The student is notified by the instructor of the results of the
examination during the third week of the semester. If the examination
is passed, the grade is submitted to the Office of Admissions and
Records by the end of the third week. The student's name will remain
on the roster and the grade will appear on the semester grade report.
If the examination is failed, the student has two options:
a. for baccalaureate students only, remain enrolled in the course
with the permission of the instructor and complete it according to
standard procedure, or
b. officially drop the course before the end of the third week.
5. The course grade will appear on the student's permanent record with
the other grades for the semester.
6. The Vice President of Academic Affairs may waive any additional fees
incurred by enrollment in the course taken for credit by examination
if the student, through petition, can demonstrate that said fees create
an unusual and significant hardship.
Procedure for Courses Not Listed in the Class Schedule
1. The student completes a "Petition for Credit by Examination" form
obtained from the Office of Admissions and Records and submits it to
the department chair by the second week of classes.
2. The department verifies the student's eligibility for credit by
examination, approves or denies the petition, and notifies the student.
If approved, the department will add the class to the schedule for the
semester, write in the schedule number on the top of the form and
schedule an examination appointment prior to the end of the second
week.
3. The student must officially add the class using the schedule number
on a "Change of Program" form and pay any additional fees (unless
waived by the appropriate dean, see #6 above) by the end of the third
week.
4. The student is notified by the instructor of the results of the
examination during the third week of the semester. If the examination
is passed, the grade is submitted to the Office of Admissions and
Records by the end of the third week. The student's name will remain
on the roster and the grade will appear on the semester grade report.
If the examination is failed, the student must officially drop the
course by the end of the third week.
5. The course grade will appear on the student's permanent record with
the other grades for the semester.
Enrollment in Graduate Courses by Seniors
Students in their senior year may petition to take two courses that are
not used to fulfill requirements for the bachelor's degree. Approval must
be obtained from the appropriate graduate program coordinator prior to
registration in order to receive graduate credit for courses taken in the
senior year. Petitions are available in the Office of Admissions.
2024-25 University Catalog 121
Scholastic Notice and
Disqualification
Undergraduate Academic Notice and
Disqualification
For purposes of determining a student's eligibility to remain at CSU
Dominguez Hills, both quality of performance and progress toward her/
his objective shall be considered. Such eligibility is based upon a gradepoint computation.
Administrative-Academic Notice
An undergraduate student may be placed on administrative academic
notice for the following reasons:
1. Withdrawal from all or a substantial portion of a program of study
in two successive terms or in any three terms (Note: Students with
chronic or recurring medical conditions may be exempt).
2. Repeated failure to progress toward a degree or other program
objective, when circumstances are within their control. This includes
a student who receives 15 units of "No Credit" for course work
attempted.
3. After due notice, an academic requirement or regulation that is
routine for all students is not met (e.g. failure to take placement tests,
complete required practicum, comply with appropriate professional
standards for the discipline, complete the specified number of units,
make satisfactory progress as required for financial aid, etc.).
If a student is placed on administrative academic notice, a written
notification will be provided that describes the circumstances that led to
the action, the requirements necessary to be removed from this status,
and the conditions that may lead to disqualification.
Administrative-Academic Disqualification
A student who has been placed on administrative academic notice may
be disqualified from further attendance if:
1. The conditions for removal of administrative academic notice are not
met within the period specified.
2. The student becomes subject to academic notice while on
administrative academic notice.
3. The student becomes subject to administrative academic notice the
second time for the same or similar reason(s). When such action
is taken, the student shall receive written notification including an
explanation of the basis for the action.
In addition, the Provost may disqualify a student who at any time
during enrollment demonstrates behavior unfit for the standards
of the profession for which the student is preparing. In such cases,
disqualification will occur immediately upon notice to the student, which
shall include an explanation of the basis for the action. Furthermore, the
campus may require the student to discontinue enrollment as of the date
of the notification.
Academic Notice
An undergraduate student is subject to academic notice if at any time
the cumulative grade point average in all college work attempted or
the cumulative Dominguez Hills grade point average falls below 2.0.
The student shall be advised of notice status promptly. A student shall
be removed from academic notice when the cumulative grade point
average in all college work attempted and the Dominguez Hills grade
point average is 2.0 or higher.
Academic Disqualification
A student on academic notice is subject to academic disqualification
when:
1. As a freshman (fewer than 30 semester hours of college work
completed) the student falls below a grade point average of 1.50 in all
units attempted or in all units attempted at California State University,
Dominguez Hills.
2. As a sophomore (30 through 59 semester hours of college work
completed) the student falls below a grade point average of 1.70 in all
units attempted or in all units attempted at California State University,
Dominguez Hills.
3. As a junior (60 through 89 semester hours of college work completed)
the student falls below a grade point average of 1.85 in all units
attempted or in all units attempted at California State University,
Dominguez Hills.
4. As a senior (90 or more semester hours of college work completed)
the student falls below a grade point average of 1.95 in all units
attempted or in all units attempted at California State University,
Dominguez Hills.
A student who is not on notice is subject to academic disqualification
when:
1. At the end of any term a student falls below a cumulative grade point
of 1.0; and
2. The University Provost determines that in view of the student's
overall educational record, it seems unlikely that the deficiency will be
removed within a reasonable period of time.
Notice of Disqualification –
Undergraduate Students
Students who are disqualified at the end of any enrollment period should
be notified before the beginning of the next consecutive enrollment
term (spring or fall). Students disqualified at the beginning of a summer
enrollment break should be notified at least one month before the start
of the fall term. In a case where a student should be disqualified at the
end of a term but timely notification is not possible, the student will be
notified that the disqualification may be effective at the end of the next
term. Such notification should include any condition(s) that will allow
the student to continue in enrollment. Failure to notify students does not
create the right of the student to continue enrollment.
Readmission of Disqualified Students
For information, refer to the section "Readmission of Former Students."
Satisfactory Academic Progress
(Financial Aid)
In addition to maintaining "good academic standing" at all times to
progress towards degree completion, students receiving financial and
must maintain satisfactory academic progress in order to remain eligible
to receive financial aid. Refer to the Financial Aid website for specific
information required to maintain satisfactory academic progress for
financial aid purposes.
122 Academic Renewal
Academic Renewal
Students who desire the University to disregard up to three quarters
or two semesters of previous undergraduate course work taken at
any college or university from all considerations associated with
requirements for the baccalaureate degree may submit a petition to the
Student Academic Petitions and Appeals Committee. The petition is filed
with the Office of Admissions. The circumstances under which previous
work might be removed would consist of ALL of the following:
1. the student has presented evidence that work completed in the
term(s) under consideration is substandard and not representative of
present scholastic ability and level of performance; and
2. the level of performance represented by the term(s) under
consideration was due to extenuating circumstances; and
3. there is every evidence that the student would find it necessary to
complete additional units in order to raise his/her overall grade point
average to a 2.0 level for graduation if the request was not approved;
and
4. none of the units removed through academic renewal may be used to
satisfy graduation requirements.
The committee may provide approval if:
1. five years have elapsed since the most recent work to be disregarded
was completed; and
2. the student has completed 15 semester units at CSU Dominguez
Hills with at least a 3.0 grade point average, or 30 semester units
with at least a 2.5 grade point average, or 45 semester units with at
least a 2.0 grade point average (since the most recent work to be
disregarded was completed).
In the case of admission from other colleges where removal of work
from degree consideration has occurred such action shall be honored
according to the previous college's policy. However, elimination of any
work in a term shall reduce by one term the one-year maximum on work
that may be disregarded at the college to which the applicant seeks
admission.
Upon approval, the Office of Admissions and Records annotates the
student's permanent record so that it is readily evident to all users
of the record that no work taken during the disregarded quarter(s)
or semester(s), even if satisfactory, may apply toward baccalaureate
requirements.
Continuing Students
Catalog Rights — Requirements Under
Which a Student Graduates
A student remaining in continuous attendance at CSU Dominguez Hills,
at any California community college or any combination of California
community colleges and campuses of The California State University,
for purposes of meeting graduation requirements, may elect to meet the
requirements in effect either:
1. at the time such attendance began; or
2. at the time of entrance to CSU Dominguez Hills; or
3. at the time of graduation.
A student who changes his or her major or minor may be required to meet
the requirements in effect at the time of the change.
Continuous attendance for students seeking an undergraduate degree
or credentials is defined as matriculated enrollment in a regionally
accredited college or university at least one semester (or two quarters)
each calendar year. A student with a graduate degree objective must
maintain continuous attendance defined as attendance in regular or
special session each fall and spring semester of the academic year.
Attendance in summer session is not required. Catalog rights may be
maintained when you are absent through a planned educational leave.
Even though degree requirements may remain constant due to catalog
rights, students are required to meet the prerequisites of courses as
stated in the current catalog.
Educational Leave (Planned)
A Planned Educational Leave is defined as a planned interruption or
temporary cessation of a student's formal education in which the student
voluntarily and temporarily ceases enrollment at CSU Dominguez Hills
while pursuing other educationally related activities to enrich his/her
academic program or to clarify educational goals. The leave may be
used for any number of educationally related activities including travel,
independent study, work study or attendance at another institution. The
intent of the program is to make it possible for a student to suspend
academic work, leave the campus and later resume studies with a
minimum of procedural difficulty. Petitions are available at the Office of
Admissions.
Eligibility
Any registered undergraduate student, in good academic standing, is
eligible for the Planned Educational Leave Program.
Duration of Leave
The minimum leave shall be two full semesters; the maximum, two
calendar years.
Fees
Students meeting all conditions of the approved leave shall be required
to submit an application for readmission on returning from Planned
Educational Leave, but shall not be required to pay another application
fee.
Availability of Services
A student on Planned Educational Leave shall be expected to devote his/
her leave period to off-campus activities. The student shall be classified
as "on leave" and shall not be considered a regularly enrolled student.
Therefore, the student is not entitled to the campus services normally
provided to enrolled students, except that the student may confer with
his/her academic advisor and others regarding leave activity and plans
for re-enrollment.
Resumption of Formal Education
A student shall be guaranteed reentry and retention of registration priority
if all conditions of the approved leave have been met at the conclusion
of his/her Planned Educational Leave. Every effort shall be made to
facilitate and simplify the return. For purposes of election of graduation
requirements, the approved leave shall not constitute an interruption of
attendance provided the student registers in the same major. Students
2024-25 University Catalog 123
who fail to resume studies at the prearranged time shall forfeit the
advantages of the Planned Educational Leave Program.
Student Record Entry
Each student enrolled in the program will have an entry made on his/her
permanent record indicating that the student is on leave. The dates of the
beginning and conclusion of the leave also will be recorded.
Academic Credit
Students must obtain prior approval of the Registrar's Office to enroll for
credit at another institution of higher education. Any credit earned will be
treated as transfer credit to be evaluated and entered in student records
in the customary manner.
Compliance
Any student on Planned Educational Leave who does not comply with
all provisions of this policy and the conditions of the leave is subject to
forfeiture of the advantages of this program.
Application Procedures
1. A registered student may request a Planned Educational Leave. The
petition shall include an explanation of the student's reasons for
seeking an educational leave and when he/she intends to resume
academic work.
2. The request shall be initiated by the student and be reviewed by the
Office of Admissions. If the request is approved, the registrar shall
take steps to insure the student's reentry and retention of registration
priority, and make the appropriate entry in the student's academic
record.
3. The request shall be approved only after contractual agreements
(e.g., financial aid) have been satisfactorily terminated or
renegotiated.
4. A registered student may file a petition for a Planned Educational
Leave at any time; however, the leave must commence at the
beginning of the following semester.
5. Permission for a Planned Educational Leave must be requested and
approved in advance of the term the leave is to begin; a leave will not
be granted retroactively.
6. Students whose Planned Educational Leaves will take them out of
California are advised to consult the Office of Admissions regarding
residency requirements.
Continuing Student Status
Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate students may elect to be absent
for one semester without losing eligibility for re-registration, subject to
the following conditions:
1. Registration access will not be provided to students who were
scholastically disqualified following their most recent semester of
attendance at CSU Dominguez Hills.
2. Students who attend another college or university during an absence
from CSU Dominguez Hills must file an application for admission
as a returning student and must have official transcripts of work
attempted sent to the Office of Admissions. The nonrefundable $70
application fee is required.
3. Undergraduate students who graduate from CSU Dominguez
Hills and wish to continue as graduate students must file a new
application for admission. An application fee of $70 is required.
Absence due to an approved Planned Educational Leave shall not be
considered an interruption in attendance.
Students who have completed the maximum number of units required
for the degree may maintain continuous attendance after completion
of their course work requirement by enrolling in regular university
courses.
An academic year begins in the fall and consists of two consecutive
semesters, fall and spring.
Full-Time Status
Undergraduates are considered to be full-time students during any
semester when they are enrolled in 12 units or more. However, graduation
in four years' time requires completion of 15 units each semester.
Study Load for Undergraduate Students
A student may enroll in 18 units without an advisor's written approval
unless otherwise required. Students enrolling in 19-21 units are required
to have an advisor's written approval. Students enrolling in more than 21
units must also obtain the approval of the dean of the school in which the
student is majoring. Exploring students must obtain the approval of the
director of the College Student Success Center.
Dean's List
Undergraduate students will qualify for the Dean's List in each semester
in which they earn a grade point average of 3.5 or better in 12 or more
units of letter grade courses. The designation "Honors" will appear on the
official transcript.
Graduation with Honors for Students
Completing the Baccalaureate Degree
An undergraduate student who has completed a minimum of 36 units in
residence at CSU Dominguez Hills with a grade point average of 3.40 or
better may be a candidate for graduation with honors.
The criteria for graduation with honors are:
1. a minimum of 36 units in residence;
2. a minimum grade point average of 3.40 on all units taken at CSU
Dominguez Hills;
3. a cumulative grade point average as outlined below on all acceptable
undergraduate work:
3.40 - 3.59  Cum Laude
3.60 - 3.79  Magna Cum Laude
3.80 - 4.00  Summa Cum Laude
Cumulative Grade Point Average on all Acceptable
Undergraduate Work
Individual departments may also have departmental honors policies
which are described in the program section.
Students who achieve the above honors will have the information
recorded on their transcripts and diplomas.
124 University Graduation Requirements
University Graduation Requirements
Statutory Requirements: United States
History, Constitution and American Ideals
To qualify for graduation, each student shall demonstrate knowledge
of the Constitution of the United States and American history, including
the study of American institutions and ideals, and the principles of state
and local government established under the Constitution of the state of
California.
These statutory requirements may be satisfied by completion of POL 101
American Institutions and HIS 101 History Of United States, or by passing
comprehensive examinations in each of these fields. Students who have
fulfilled the American History and the United States Constitution and
government section of the state requirements may fulfill the California
state and local government section by successfully completing POL 312
State and Local Government: Organization and Problems or by passing a
comprehensive examination. (Contact the Political Science Department,
(310) 243-3434 for further information.) Students transferring from other
colleges who have not already met one or more of these requirements
may take examinations in those parts not met. Students transferring from
other accredited institutions of collegiate grade, who have been certified
by such institutions as meeting these requirements, shall not be required
to take further courses or examinations therein.
Graduation Requirement in Writing
Proficiency (Graduation Writing
Assessment Requirement - GWAR)
The California State University requires that all undergraduate students
demonstrate competency in writing skills at the upper division level as a
requirement for graduation.
Undergraduate students must first complete their lower division English
composition courses in Area A, General Education, before attempting to
complete this upper-division requirement. Fulfillment of GWAR should
be undertaken at the beginning of the junior year (or 60 units) and can
be met by completing an upper-division GWAR-certifying course in the
major or a closely related major. Many departments and programs offered
GWAR-certifying courses for their majors. Students should contact their
major department to determine if such a course is offered. Students must
earn a grade of C or higher to satisfy the GWAR.
Those students whose major department does not offer an upper-division
GWAR-certifying course may elect to take one of the following after
consulting with their major department:
• BIO 490 Senior Project
• BPH 340 Experimental Biophysics
• BUS 445 International Business
• CDV 320 Mthd & Analysis in Child Study
• CHE 360 Writing in Chemical Sciences
• CHS 300 Critical Issues in Chicana/Chicano Studies
• CJA 339 Research Methods and Communication in Criminal Justice
Administration
• CLS 307 Clinical Hematology
• ENG 317 Black English Language and Culture
• ENG 350 Advanced Composition: The English Department regularly
offers this GWAR-certifying course. Students must earn a grade of C
or higher to satisfy the GWAR requirement.
• ENG 490 Seminar in Literature
• HIS 400 Proseminar in History
• HUS 310 Helping and Professional Relationships
• IDS 397 Writing Adjunct/IDS 398 Writing Adjunct (Competency
Certification) (Students must complete both course to receive GWAR
credit)
• IDS 490 Interdisciplinary Studies Senior Seminar
• KIN 330 Sport and Exercise Psychology
• LBS 370 Multicultural Studies
• MUS 486 Music History III: 1880 to Contemporary
• POL 300 Research Design in Political Science
• PUB 306 Research Methods in Public Administration
• SOC 309 Writing Skills in Sociology
• WMS 490 Senior Capstone
Transfer Certification
Students who have satisfied the Graduation Writing Assessment
Requirement (GWAR) at another CSU campus in 1984 or later, but prior
to matriculation at CSU, Dominguez Hills, may petition for fulfillment
of GWAR at CSUDH. Students must complete a Petition for Fulfillment
of GWAR at the Toro Learning & Testing Center, attaching a copy of the
certifying test score or copy of an official transcript and the catalog
description of the pertinent coursework. CSU, Dominguez Hills Testing
Center, North Library 5705, (310) 243-3909.
Application for Graduation -
Undergraduate
Undergraduate students should file for graduation in accordance with the
following schedule:
Graduation Term Regular Deadline Late Deadline
Fall Semester July 1 September 15
Spring Semester October 1 Last day of fall
semester
Summer Session February 1 April 15
Schedule for Application for Graduation -
Undergraduate
Note: If the above dates should fall on a weekend or holiday, the deadline
will be at the close of business on the previous working day.
All eligible degree candidates must file an Application for Graduation via
their myCSUDH student portal no later than the deadline date(s) listed
above.
Completion of degree requirements is the student's responsibility,
and therefore, each student should be familiar with the information
and procedures regarding graduation. For assistance in reviewing
requirements, a student should meet with an advisor. If a student does
not complete all graduation requirements by the end of the term for which
she/he files, the student must file a Request for Change of Graduation
Date and pay the required fee.
2024-25 University Catalog 125
The original graduation check is valid as long as the student remains
in continuous attendance and completes the program under the
originally stated catalog year. Most students will run a degree audit in
myCSUDH.edu. (https://my.csudh.edu/) Only students in majors that do
not have a degree audit will receive a degree check.
Faculty Approval
Formal approval by the faculty of the University is required in order for a
degree to be awarded.
Graduation in Absentia
Students who have completed their residency requirements may request
approval to graduate from CSU Dominguez Hills upon completion of
course work at another regionally accredited institution. Students who
do not maintain continuing student status, as defined, but who plan
to complete degree requirements at another institution must obtain
approval to graduate in absentia in advance; individual courses must
be approved by the appropriate program chair. All such work must be
completed within two years of the last course taken at CSU Dominguez
Hills. Students not fulfilling these conditions will be expected to meet
all requirements in effect at the date of their graduation. Forms can be
obtained from the Registrar's Office.
Commencement Exercises
Commencement Ceremonies are held at the end of each spring semester.
Students who have completed their degree requirements in the previous
fall semester, and those who will complete their course work in the spring
or summer semesters, are eligible to participate in the Commencement
Ceremony. Participation in the Commencement Ceremony does not
automatically guarantee a degree is awarded. Students must meet all
degree requirements by the end of the term they have applied for; failure
to meet requirements will not allow degree conferral. Students must
apply for one of these graduation terms by April 15th to ensure that their
name will appear in the Commencement Program.
After a student applies for graduation, a Commencement Participation
link will be available in their student portal under “Important Student
Links.” Students must register through this link by April 15th to
participate in the Spring Commencement Ceremony.
Dates are subject to change and will be updated on the Commencement
website at www.csudh.edu/commencement (http://www.csudh.edu/
commencement/)
Final eligibility reviews of applications occur after the end of the
semester(s) and once completed, diplomas will be mailed to students
who have met all their degree requirements after verifications have been
completed.
Postbaccalaureate Credentials and
Certificates
POSTBACCALAUREATE CREDENTIALS
AND CERTIFICATES
Postbaccalaureate Admission Requirements
The minimum requirements for admission to post-baccalaureate studies
at a California State University campus are in accordance with University
regulations as well as Title 5, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3 of the California
Code of Regulations.
Specifically, a student shall at the time of enrollment:
1. have completed a four-year college course of study and hold an
acceptable baccalaureate degree from an institution accredited
by a regional accrediting association, or shall have completed
equivalent academic preparation as determined by appropriate
campus authorities;
2. be in good academic standing at the last college or university
attended;
3. have earned a grade point average of at least 2.5 on the last degree
completed by the candidate or have attained a grade point average
of at least 2.5 (A=4.0) in the last 60 semester (90 quarter) units
attempted; and
4. satisfactorily meet the professional, personal, scholastic, and other
standards for graduate study, including qualifying examinations, as
appropriate campus authorities may prescribe.
Students who meet the minimum requirements may be considered for
admission in either the Classified or Conditionally Classified standing:
• Postbaccalaureate Classified, e.g. admission to an education
credential program – Persons wishing to enroll in a credential or
certificate program, will be required to satisfy additional professional,
personal, scholastic, and other standards, including qualifying
examinations, prescribed by the campus; or
• Postbaccalaureate Unclassified – To enroll in undergraduate courses
as preparation for advanced degree programs or to enroll in graduate
courses for professional or personal growth, applicants must be
admitted as postbaccalaureate unclassified students. By meeting
the general requirements, applicants are eligible for admission as
postbaccalaureate unclassified students. Admission in this status
does not constitute admission to, or assurance of consideration for
admission to, any graduate degree or credential program. (Most CSU
campuses do not offer admission to unclassified postbaccalaureate
students). These and other CSU admission requirements are subject
to change as policies are revised and laws are amended. The CSU
website (https://www2.calstate.edu/) admissions portal (https://
www2.calstate.edu/apply/) is a good source of the most up-to-date
information.
Special Admission Action
In unusual circumstances, a campus may make exceptions to the
enrollment criteria.
An applicant who does not qualify for admission under the regular
admission criteria may be admitted to a program by special action if,
upon the basis of acceptable evidence, the applicant is judged by the
specific program director, College Dean, and Dean of Graduate Studies
and Research to possess sufficient academic and professional potential
pertinent to the educational objectives to merit such action.
Graduates of Non-Regionally Accredited Institutions
Graduates of non-regionally accredited institutions are not typically
eligible for postbaccalaureate standing. However, admission to a
postbaccalaureate credential or certificate program may be conditionally
granted via the Special Admission Action process if the applicant has
completed equivalent academic preparation as determined by the
appropriate graduate program director and the Dean of Graduate Studies
and Research.
Applicants who have completed their baccalaureate degree at a
nationally accredited or nonaccredited university must consult with the
department chair or program director (https://www.csudh.edu/gsr/dean/
126 Postbaccalaureate Credentials and Certificates
staff/), as the guidance on how to proceed will be highly specific to each
applicant’s individual circumstances.
Postbaccalaureate Application Procedures and Policies
CSU Dominguez Hills welcomes applications from students without
regard to age, marital status, religion, sexual identity, gender identity, sex
assigned at birth, disability, race, color, or national origin who provide
evidence of suitable preparation for work at the postbaccalaureate level.
Students are advised to contact the appropriate credential or certificate
program office before applying to the program.
All applicants to graduate programs must file a complete application
to each university of interest as described in the graduate admission
materials at www.calstate.edu/apply (http://www.calstate.edu/apply/).
An acknowledgment will be sent to the applicant when the online
application is submitted.
Applicants must submit the admission file by the specific program’s
deadline. Contact the Graduate Studies and Research (http://
www.csudh.edu/gsr/) office for current deadlines.
Most departments require additional application materials for students
seeking a postbaccalaureate certificate or credential. Applicants should
consult the program sections of this catalog for specific program
requirements.
Admission to the University is for a specific semester. Students who do
not register for that semester will have their admission cancelled. When
seeking admission at a future date, students must file a new application
form, follow the complete application procedure, pay the application fee,
and meet the current admission requirements. Transcripts on file will be
retained for one year.
The University reserves the right to select its students and deny
admission to the University or any of its programs at the University, based
on an applicant's suitability and the best interests of the University.
Application Filing Periods
Applications to post-baccalaureat programs will open according to the
schedule below:
Terms Applications First
Accepted
Initial Filing Period
Fall Semester October 1
Spring Semester August 1
Summer Semester February 1
Please note, that not all programs are open for admission to every term.
Each postbaccalaureate program that accepts students has its own
application deadline. Some programs accept students only in the fall
or spring semester. Individual programs must be consulted for deadline
dates and admissions requirements.
Postbaccalaureate Transcript Requirements
One official copy of your transcripts is required from each institution
attended at which the last 60 semester (90 quarter) units of upperdivision course work were earned, excluding extension units. One copy
from the institution awarding the baccalaureate degree must be included.
All transcripts must be received directly from the issuing institutions. All
transcripts become the property of the University and will not be returned,
copied, or forwarded. Processing of applications cannot be guaranteed
unless all required documents are received during the designated
application period. Persons who have transcripts sent but who do not
enroll are advised that transcripts are retained for one year, after which
they are destroyed.
Any student who earned a bachelor's degree at CSU Dominguez Hills and
subsequently applies for graduate admission to this institution is not
required to request or pay for transcripts from CSUDH.
Test Requirements
Students applying to Basic Credential programs must pass the CBEST
prior to admissions. Please check with your program of interest if any
additional examinations may be required.
International Student Admission Requirements
U.S. resident students who completed their baccalaureate education
abroad and in a primary language of instruction other than English must
submit academic records from foreign institutions prior to the application
deadline. If these records are not in English, they must be accompanied
by certified English translations.
International students, defined as those who hold U.S. temporary visas,
exchange visitors, or in other nonimmigrant classifications, must submit
additional documents. Verification of English proficiency, financial
resources, and academic performance are each important considerations
for admission under a supported student visa. International applicants
are required to comply with the following additional requirements and
instructions:
• Academic records from foreign institutions must be on file prior to the
application deadline and, if not in English, must be accompanied by
certified English translations.
• International visa applicants are required to submit an affidavit
of financial support. This form is available from the Office of
Admissions.
• Effective August 1, 1995, as a condition of receiving an I-20 or
IAP-66 form, all F-1 and J-1 visa applicants must agree to obtain
and maintain health insurance as a condition of registration and
continued enrollment in the California State University. Such
insurance must be in amounts as specified by the United States
Information Agency (USIA) and NAFSA: Association of International
Educators.
As noted above, all official documents submitted become the property
of the University and will not be returned, copied, or forwarded. The
acceptability of any international work will be determined by the
University. For more information, visit the International Students
website: http://csudh.edu/international (http://csudh.edu/international/).
Readmission of Former Postbaccalaureate Students
All postbaccalaureate students who have withdrawn from the University
or failed to enroll for a second consecutive semester must reapply for
admission.
A student who left the University in good standing may be readmitted
provided any academic work attempted elsewhere does not change their
scholastic status. Transcripts of any courses attempted in the interim are
required.
A student who was on academic notice at the close of the last semester
of enrollment may be readmitted on academic notice provided they are
otherwise eligible. The student must have official transcripts of any
course work attempted during their absence sent to the University.
2024-25 University Catalog 127
Postbaccalaureate Advisement Following Admission
Advisement is generally done within the specific post-baccalaureate
program or department.
Adding a Credential or Certificate Within a Degree
Program
Some degree programs offer options that differ significantly in academic
course work and prepare students for singularly different careers.
Graduate students wishing to complete a credential or certificate
alongside their master’s degree program at CSU Dominguez Hills may
do so by completing the Graduate Change of Objective form. Students
must meet all requirements for the new program. All university policies
governing postbaccalaureate credential and degree programs apply in the
same manner to the added option.
Immunization Requirements
The CSU requires all students to receive certain immunizations,
as described on the Student Health Services website: https://
www.csudh.edu/shs/immunization-requirements/. (https://
www.csudh.edu/shs/immunization/)
Students who have questions about the immunization requirements,
or who need to discuss an exemption from the requirements based on
medical considerations or religious or personal beliefs, should contact
the Student Health Center at (310) 243-3629.
Postbaccalaureate Academic Standards
Grade Point Average
The grade point average at CSU Dominguez Hills is computed on a 4-
point scale. A specified number of grade points is associated with each
grade listed in the "Grades and Grade Points" section. Credit/No Credit
("CR/NC") grades have no grade point value and are not calculated in the
grade point average.
The total grade points are calculated by multiplying the number of grade
points associated with the grade assigned by the number of units for
each class. The grade point average is computed by dividing the total
number of grade points earned by the total number of units attempted.
To remain in good academic standing, a student must maintain a
cumulative GPA of 2.5 or higher, maintain a 2.5 GPA in all courses used to
fulfill the program requirements, and make successful progress toward
the certificate or credential.
To earn the certificate or credential, the grade point average of 2.5
is calculated on all courses used to fulfill the program requirements.
No course with a grade lower than a "C" will be applied to the
postbaccalaureate program. No student on academic notice may be
granted a postbaccalaureate certificate or credential.
Prerequisites
The grade point average required in prerequisite courses varies according
to the particular program. See specific program requirements in the
program sections of this catalog.
Scholastic Notice and Disqualification
Academic notice and Disqualification
Postbaccalaureate students are placed on academic notice if they
fail to maintain a cumulative grade point average of 2.5 across all
postbaccalaureate units attempted. If they do not bring their grade
point average up to 2.5 in the following semester in residence, they are
subject to disqualification from the program in which they are enrolled.
Some students may be able to avoid disqualification one time if their
department offers a study plan that is approved by the Dean of Graduate
Studies and Research.
Students who have been disqualified for academic deficiency will be
withdrawn from their certificate or credential program and may not enroll
in any courses offered by the University other than those offered by Open
University through Extended Education.
Administrative-Academic notice
A postbaccalaureate student may be placed on administrative-academic
notice by action of appropriate campus officials for any of the following
reasons:
1. Withdrawal from all or a substantial portion of a program of study in
two successive terms or in any three terms.
2. Repeated failure to progress toward the stated program objective
when such failure appears to be due to circumstances within the
control of the student.
3. Failure to comply with an academic requirement or regulation
that is routine for all students or for a defined group of students
(for example, failure to take placement tests, failure to complete a
required internship, etc.).
When such action is taken, the student shall be notified in writing
and shall be provided with the conditions for removal from academic
notice and the circumstances that would lead to disqualification should
academic notice not be removed.
Administrative-Academic Disqualification
A student who has been placed on administrative-academic notice may
be disqualified and withdrawn from the certificate or credential program
for any of the following reasons:
1. The conditions for removal of administrative-academic notice are not
met within the period specified.
2. The student becomes subject to academic notice while on
administrative-academic notice.
3. The student becomes subject to administrative-academic notice
for the same or similar reason they were previously placed on
administrative-academic notice, even if the first notice was
successfully remediated.
When such action is taken, the student shall receive a written notification,
including an explanation of the basis for the action.
Reinstatement of Academically Disqualified Students
The reinstatement of an academically disqualified postbaccalaureate
student is by special action only. Students must submit a Petition for
Reinstatement, available on the Graduate Studies and Research website
(https://www.csudh.edu/gsr/) or in the Graduate Studies office. Students
cannot apply for readmission through the Cal State Apply process.
Students will only be considered for reinstatement after a minimum
of one-semester non-attendance following academic disqualification.
Approval of reinstatement is partially based on evidence that the
causes of previous low achievement have been removed or resolved.
At a minimum, Petitions for Reinstatement must include a Statement
of Low Achievement that explains, in detail, how the causes of low
achievement have been corrected and what plans are in place to ensure
future academic success. Students may choose to provide supplemental
evidence, which could include, but is not limited to,
128 Second Baccalaureate Degrees
transcripts of coursework completed after disqualification, medical
testimony, and/or other objective evidence.
To prove their academic ability, academically disqualified
postbaccalaureate students may also complete courses through CSUDH
Open University or at other regionally accredited academic institutions.
Reinstated students are not guaranteed to receive content credit for
coursework completed during disqualification. Grades earned elsewhere
will not reduce the CSUDH grade-point deficiency or change the CSUDH
grade-point average; grades earned elsewhere serve only as indicators
of academic ability. Units earned will not be counted towards university
residency requirements. Successful completion of coursework does
not guarantee reinstatement to the University or to the certificate or
credential program from which the student was disqualified.
Students who have been disqualified from a postbaccalaureate
program may be admitted to another postbaccalaureate program on the
recommendation of the department concerned and with the approval
of the appropriate College Dean and the Dean of Graduate Studies and
Research.
Petitions for Reinstatement and supplemental attachments should be
submitted to the graduate program director of the disqualifying program.
Submission deadlines are as follows:
Petitions for Reinstatement Submission Deadlines
Reinstatement Term Submission Deadlines
Fall Semester May 31
Spring Semester December 15
Summer Semester Not Accepted
The University reserves the right to request additional information from
the student regarding their Petition for Reinstatement. Students will be
notified of the reinstatement decision in writing by the Office of Graduate
Studies and Research approximately 4 – 6 weeks after submitting the
petition. Decisions are final and cannot be appealed.
If the Petition for Reinstatement is approved, the student will have
to agree to the terms and/or conditions identified by the program.
Postbaccalaureate students are restricted to a maximum of one
reinstatement after academic disqualification.
Continuing Student Status
Postbaccalaureate students may elect to be absent for one semester
without losing eligibility for re-registration, subject to the following
conditions:
1. Registration access will not be provided to students who were
scholastically disqualified following their most recent semester of
attendance at CSU Dominguez Hills.
2. Students who attend another college or university during an absence
from CSU Dominguez Hills must file an application for admission
as a returning student and must have official transcripts of work
attempted sent to the Office of Admissions. The non-refundable $70
application fee is required.
3. Absence due to an approved Planned Educational Leave shall not be
considered an interruption in attendance.
Completion of Postbaccalaureate
Credential or Certificate
The award of postbaccalaureate credentials and certificates to students
who have met the program requirements is managed by the department
offering the credential or certificate. Please contact the specific program
for more information about obtaining confirmation that a credential or
certificate has been earned.
Second Baccalaureate Degrees
Second Baccalaureate Degree
Students seeking a second or additional baccalaureate degree must
satisfy all requirements for the degree. However, as post-baccalaureate
students, they are also subject to additional requirements.
To be eligible for admission as a Second Baccalaureate degree candidate,
students must:
• hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited institution;
• be in good academic standing at the last college or university
attended; and
• have a minimum grade point average of 2.50 in their last 60
semester units (or 90 quarter units).
Due to increased enrollment demands, some CSU campuses do not admit
second or additional baccalaureate degree applicants.
Degree Requirements
• Students may elect a regular major or a single field major.
• No minor is required.
• Students must satisfy all requirements for the degree.
• Students must meet all statutory requirements.
• Students who are undertaking a second baccalaureate degree
will be deemed to have met the Graduation Writing Assessment
Requirement (GWAR) if their first baccalaureate degree is
from an institution of higher education accredited by a U. S.
regional accreditor. All other candidates must satisfy the GWAR
requirement as outlined in the Undergraduate Degree section of
this catalog.
• Students are not eligible for honors.
• Courses taken as part of a second baccalaureate degree cannot
apply to graduate work except as allowed for in the "Enrollment
in Graduate Courses by Seniors" policy explained elsewhere in
this catalog.
In addition, students must:
• complete requirements in a discipline other than that in which a
previous degree was earned; units from the first degree may not
be counted; specific courses may be waived and other courses
substituted;
• receive program approval; requirements must be agreed upon
in writing by the department chairperson and kept on file in the
department office before 14 units are completed;
• complete a minimum of 30 units in residence, including 24 units
in upper-division courses, which include 12 units in the major;
• maintain at least a 2.50 grade point average in all courses taken
for the degree to remain in good academic standing.
2024-25 University Catalog 129
Graduate Degrees
GRADUATE DEGREES
Graduate And Post-Baccalaureate Admission
Requirements
Graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants may apply for a degree
objective, a credential or certificate objective, or where approved, may
have no program objective. Depending on the objective, the CSU will
consider an application for admission as follows:
• General Requirements -- The minimum requirements for admission to
graduate and post-baccalaureate studies at a CSU are in accordance
with university regulations as well as Title 5, Chapter 1, Subchapter 3
of the California Code of Regulations.
• Specifically, a student shall at the time of enrollment:
1. Have completed a four-year college course of study and hold an
acceptable baccalaureate degree from an institution accredited
by a regional accrediting association, or shall have completed
equivalent academic preparation as determined by appropriate
university authorities;
2. Be in good academic standing at the last college or university
attended;
3. Have earned a grade point average of at least 2.5 on the last
degree completed by the candidate or have attained a grade
point average of at least 2.5 (A=4.0) in the last 60 semester (90
quarter) units attempted; and
4. Satisfactorily meet the professional, personal, scholastic,
and other standards for graduate study, including qualifying
examinations, as appropriate university authorities may
prescribe. In unusual circumstances, a university may take
exceptions to these criteria.
• Students who meet the minimum requirements for graduate
studies may be considered for admission in either the Classified
or Conditionally Classified standing:
a. Graduate Classified – To pursue a graduate degree,
applicants are required to fulfill all of the professional,
personal, scholastic, and other standards, including
qualifying examinations, prescribed by the university; or
b. Graduate Conditionally Classified – Applicants may be
admitted to a graduate degree program in this category if, in
the opinion of appropriate university authority, deficiencies
may be remedied by additional preparation.
c. Post-Baccalaureate Classified (e.g. admission to an
education credential program) -- Persons wishing to enroll in
a credential or certificate program will be required to satisfy
additional professional, personal, scholastic, and other
standards, including qualifying examinations, prescribed by
the university; or
d. Post-Baccalaureate Unclassified -- To enroll in
undergraduate courses as preparation for advanced degree
programs or to enroll in graduate courses for professional
or personal growth, applicants must be admitted as postbaccalaureate unclassified students. By meeting the
general requirements, applicants are eligible for admission
as post-baccalaureate unclassified students. Admission in
this status does not constitute admission to, or assurance
of consideration for admission to, any graduate degree or
credential program. (Most CSUs do not offer admission to
unclassified post-baccalaureate students).
(These and other CSU admission requirements are subject to change as
policies are revised and laws are amended. The CSU website and the CSU
admission portal are good sources for the most up-to-date information.)
Special Admission Action
In unusual circumstances, a campus may make exceptions to the
enrollment criteria.
An applicant who does not qualify for admission under the regular
admission criteria may be admitted to a program by special action if,
upon the basis of acceptable evidence, the applicant is judged by the
specific Graduate Program Director, College Dean, and Dean of Graduate
Studies and Research to possess sufficient academic and professional
potential pertinent to the educational objectives to merit such action.
Graduates of Non-Regionally Accredited Institutions
Graduates of non-regionally accredited institutions are not typically
eligible for graduate standing. However, admission to a graduate program
may be conditionally granted via the Special Admission Action process
if the applicant has completed equivalent academic preparation as
determined by the appropriate Graduate Program Director and the Dean
of Graduate Studies and Research.
Applicants who have completed their baccalaureate degree at a
nationally accredited or nonaccredited university must consult with the
specific Graduate Program Director, as the guidance on how to proceed
will be highly specific to each applicant’s individual circumstances.
Graduate And Post-Baccalaureate Application
Procedures
All graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants (i.e., doctorate, joint
Ph.D. applicants, master's degree applicants, those seeking educational
credentials or certificates and, where permitted, holders of baccalaureate
degrees interested in taking courses for personal or professional
growth) must file a complete graduate application as described in the
graduate and post-baccalaureate admission materials on the Cal State
Apply website. Applicants seeking a second bachelor's degree must
submit the undergraduate application for admission. Applicants who
completed undergraduate degree requirements in the preceding term
are also required to complete and submit an application and the $70
nonrefundable application fee. To be assured of initial consideration
by more than one CSU, it is necessary to submit separate applications
(including fees) to each. All CSU applications must be submitted online
via the Cal State Apply website. An acknowledgement will be sent to the
applicant when the online application has been submitted.
CSU Dominguez Hills welcomes applications from students without
regard to age, marital status, religion, sexual identity, gender identity, sex
assigned at birth, disability, race, color, or national origin who provide
evidence of suitable preparation for work at the graduate level.
Students are advised to contact the appropriate graduate program office
before applying to the program.
Applicants must submit the admission file by the specific program’s
deadline. Contact the Graduate Studies and Research (https://
www.csudh.edu/gsr/) office for current deadlines.
130 Graduate Degrees
Most departments require additional application materials for students
seeking a master's degree. Applicants should consult the program
sections of this catalog for specific program requirements.
Admission to the University is for a specific semester. Students who do
not register for that semester will have their admission cancelled. When
seeking admission at a future date, students must file a new application
form, follow the complete application procedure, pay the application fee,
and meet the current admission requirements. Transcripts on file will be
retained for one year.
Note: Students receiving their bachelor’s degree from Dominguez
Hills who wish to continue into a graduate program at Dominguez Hills
must complete an application through www.calstate.edu/apply (http://
www.calstate.edu/apply/) and be accepted into the graduate program;
admission is not guaranteed.
The University reserves the right to select its students and deny
admission to the University or any of its programs at the University, based
on an applicant's suitability and the best interests of the University.
Application Filing Periods
Applications to graduate programs will open according to the schedule
below:
Terms Applications First
Accepted
Initial Filing Period
Fall Semester October 1 October 1 - November
30
Spring Semester August 1 August 1 -31
Summer Semester February 1 February 1 - 28
Please note, not all programs are open for admission to every term. Each
graduate program that is accepting students has its own application
deadline. Some graduate programs accept students only in the fall or
spring semester. Individual programs must be consulted for deadline
dates and admissions requirements.
Filing Period Duration
Each non-impacted university accepts applications until capacities
are reached. Many universities limit undergraduate admission in an
enrollment category due to overall enrollment limits. If applying after the
initial filing period, consult the university admission office for
current information.
Application Acknowledgement
On-time applicants may expect to receive an e-mail acknowledgement
from the universities to which they have applied within two to four
weeks of filing the application. The notice may include a request
that applicants submit additional records necessary to evaluate
academic qualifications. Applicants may be assured of admission if
the evaluation of relevant qualifications indicates that applicants meet
CSU admission requirements, and in the case of admission impaction,
supplemental criteria for admission to an impacted program. Unless
specific written approval/confirmation is received, an offer of admission
is not transferable to another term or to another university.
Hardship Petitions
The university has established procedures for consideration of qualified
applicants who would be faced with extreme hardship if not admitted.
Petitioners should write to the university Admission Office regarding
specific policies governing hardship admission.
Graduate Transcript Requirements
One official copy of your transcripts is required from each institution
attended at which the last 60 semester (90 quarter) units of upperdivision course work were earned, excluding extension units. One copy
from the institution awarding the baccalaureate degree must be included.
All official transcripts must be received directly from the issuing
institutions. All transcripts become the property of the University and will
not be returned, copied, or forwarded. Processing of applications cannot
be guaranteed unless all required documents are received during the
designated application period. Persons who have transcripts sent but
who do not enroll are advised that transcripts are retained for one year,
after which they are destroyed.
Any student who earned a bachelor's degree at CSU Dominguez Hills and
subsequently applies for graduate admission to this institution is not
required to request or pay for transcripts from CSUDH.
Test Requirements
The Graduate Record Examination (GRE), GRE Advanced Tests in subject
areas, and/or combined scores may be required for some programs.
Examination schedules and additional information about the GRE is
available at https://www.ets.org/gre. Please consult the graduate
program directly for information about that program’s requirements. It is
the responsibility of the applicant to request that test scores be mailed
directly to the CSU Dominguez Hills graduate program of interest.
Graduate And Post-Baccalaureate English Language
Requirement
All graduate and post-baccalaureate applicants, regardless of citizenship,
whose native language is not English and whose preparatory education
was principally in a language other than English must demonstrate
competence in English. Those who do not possess a bachelor's degree
from a postsecondary institution where English is the principal language
of instruction must receive a minimum score of 80 on the Test of English
as a Foreign Language (TOEFL), 6.5 on IELTS Academic Test, 53 on
Pearson Test of English (PTE), or 105 on the Duolingo English Test (DET).
Some programs require a higher score. Contact the specific graduate
program of interest for details.
CSUDH Minimum English Proficiency Standards
English Test Level Minimum Passing
Score
TOEFL iBT Graduate 80
IELTS Academic Test Graduate 6.5
Pearson Test of English
(PTE)
Graduate 6.5
Duolingo Test of
English (DET)
Graduate 105 (The MA in English
program requires 120)
International (Foreign) Student Admission
Requirements
The CSU must assess the academic preparation of foreign students.
For this purpose, "foreign students" include those who hold U.S.
temporary visas as students, exchange visitors or in other nonimmigrant
classifications.
The CSU uses separate requirements and application filing dates in
the admission of foreign students. Verification of English proficiency
(see section on the English Language Requirement for undergraduate
applicants), financial resources, and academic performance are each
2024-25 University Catalog 131
important considerations for admission. Academic U.S. resident students
who completed their baccalaureate education abroad and in a primary
language of instruction other than English must submit academic
records from foreign institutions prior to the application deadline. If these
records are not in English, they must be accompanied by certified English
translations. Additionally, the Graduate English Language Requirement
must be met (see above).
International students, defined as those who hold U.S. temporary visas,
exchange visitors, or in other non-immigrant classifications, must submit
additional documents. International applicants are required to comply
with the following additional requirements and instructions:
• Academic records from foreign institutions must be on file
prior to the application deadline and, if not in English, must be
accompanied by certified English translations.
• International visa applicants are required to submit an affidavit
of financial support. This form is available from the Office of
Admissions.
• Effective August 1, 1995, as a condition of receiving an I-20 or
IAP-66 form, all F-1 and J-1 visa applicants must agree to obtain
and maintain health insurance as a condition of registration
and continued enrollment in the California State University.
Such insurance must be in amounts as specified by the United
States Information Agency (USIA) and NAFSA: Association of
International Educators.
As noted above, all official documents submitted become the property
of the University and will not be returned, copied, or forwarded. The
acceptability of any international work will be determined by the
University. For more information visit the International Students
website: http://csudh.edu/international (http://csudh.edu/international/).
Readmission of Former Graduate Students
All graduate students who have withdrawn from the University or failed to
maintain continuous enrollment must reapply for admission.
A student who left the University in good standing may be readmitted
provided any academic work attempted elsewhere does not change their
scholastic status. Transcripts of any courses attempted in the interim are
required.
A student who was on academic notice at the close of the last semester
of enrollment may be readmitted on academic notice provided they are
otherwise eligible. The student must have official transcripts of any
course work attempted during their absence sent to the University.
Credit for Transfer of Graduate Work
In order to have courses considered for receipt of credit toward a degree
for post-baccalaureate work taken at other colleges or universities,
students must have official transcripts forwarded to the Office of
Admissions. The University will consider credit for work taken at another
college or university only when it appears on an official transcript from
that institution. A maximum of nine semester units of approved credit
may be transferred from an accredited college or university for a 30-unit
program. Programs with a unit requirement that exceeds 30 units may
allow more than 9 units, but may not exceed 30% of the total units for
the degree. Rounding up is not permitted. All approval of previous course
work is at the discretion of the Graduate Program Director, depending
upon its currency and its applicability to the degree objectives.
The work must have been completed as a graduate student (not including
student teaching), and must be relevant to the degree program as a
whole.
Extension courses may apply, and will be included as part of the
maximum of nine units allowable, if the transcript clearly indicates
that the course would have applied toward a graduate degree at the
sponsoring institution.
The formal request for transfer of graduate credit must be completed
and approved by the Graduate Program Director and submitted to the
Registrar's Office for final review.
Transferred courses are subject to the regulation that courses for
the graduate degree must be completed within the five- or seven-year
period at the term of graduation, as stipulated by the graduate program.
Outdated transfer course work from other colleges or universities is not
eligible for validation.
Second Master's Degree
Students may wish to pursue a second master's degree. If they are still
enrolled in the first program, they may complete the Request for PostBaccalaureate/Graduate Change of Objective form in the Graduate
Studies Office. The form will be forwarded to the Graduate Program
Director for approval. Students must be careful to monitor their time in
the first program in relation to the second as the 5-7 year time limit will
apply to both programs beginning at the time of acceptance into each
individual program. A student enrolled in two master's programs must
graduate from both during the same term. If the student chooses to
graduate from one before the other they must reapply to the University
and be accepted back into the second program. Units used for the first
degree may not be applied to the second.
Second Option or Concentration Within a Degree
Program
Some degree programs offer options that differ significantly in academic
course work and prepare students for singularly different careers.
Students wishing to complete a second concentration or option in the
same degree program at CSU Dominguez Hills may do so by completing
the Graduate Change of Objective form. Students must meet all
requirements for the new option or concentration. All university policies
governing master's degrees apply in the same manner to the second
option or concentration.
Immunization Requirements
The CSU requires all students to receive certain immunizations, described
on the Student Health Services website: https://www.csudh.edu/
shs/immunization-requirements/. (https://www.csudh.edu/shs/
immunization/)
Students who have questions about the immunization requirements,
or who need to discuss an exemption from the requirements based on
medical considerations or religious or personal beliefs, should contact
the Student Health Center at (310) 243-3629.
Graduate Advisement Following Admission
All newly admitted graduate students must attend the New Graduate
Student Orientation provided by the Graduate Studies and Research
office in the term immediately prior to enrollment (i.e., summer NGSO for
Fall admissions and winter session NGSO for Spring admissions).
132 Graduate Degrees
Graduate advisement is generally done within the specific graduate
program or department.
Graduate Academic Standards
Grade Point Average
The grade point average at CSU Dominguez Hills is computed on a 4-
point scale. A specified number of grade points is associated with each
grade listed in the "Grades and Grade Points" section. Credit/No Credit
("CR/NC") grades have no grade point value and are not calculated in the
grade point average.
The total grade points are calculated by multiplying the number of grade
points associated with the grade assigned by the number of units for
each class. The grade point average is computed by dividing the total
number of grade points earned by the total number of units attempted.
To remain in good academic standing, a student must maintain a
cumulative GPA of 3.0 or higher, maintain a 3.0 GPA in all courses used
to fulfill graduation requirements, and make successful progress toward
the degree. For some graduate programs, a grade of “B” (3.0) or higher is
required in some or all courses.
For graduation, the grade point average of 3.0 is calculated on all courses
used to fulfill the master’s degree program. No course with a grade lower
than a "C" will be applied to the degree program. No student on academic
academic notice may be granted a master's degree.
Prerequisites
The grade point average required in prerequisite courses varies according
to the particular program. See specific program requirements in the
program sections of this catalog.
Scholastic Notice and Disqualification
Academic notice and Disqualification
Graduate students are placed on academic notice if they fail to maintain
a cumulative grade point average of 3.0 across all post-baccalaureate
units attempted. If they do not bring their grade point average up to 3.0 in
the following semester in residence, they are subject to disqualification
from the program in which they are enrolled. Some students may be able
to avoid disqualification one time if their department offers a study plan
that is approved by the Dean of Graduate Studies and Research.
Students who have been disqualified for academic deficiency will be
withdrawn from their degree program and may not enroll in any courses
offered by the University other than those offered by Open University
through Extended Education.
Administrative-Academic notice
A graduate student may be placed on administrative-academic notice by
action of appropriate campus officials for any of the following reasons:
1. Withdrawal from all or a substantial portion of a program of
study in two successive terms or in any three terms.
2. Repeated failure to progress toward the stated degree objective
or other program objective, when such failure appears to be due
to circumstances within the control of the student.
3. Failure to comply with an academic requirement or regulation
that is routine for all students or for a defined group of students
(for example, failure to take placement tests, failure to complete
a required internship, etc.).
When such action is taken, the student shall be notified in writing
and shall be provided with the conditions for removal from academic
notice and the circumstances that would lead to disqualification should
academic notice not be removed.
Administrative-Academic Disqualification
A student who has been placed on administrative-academic notice may
be disqualified and withdrawn from the graduate program for any of the
following reasons:
1. The conditions for removal of administrative-academic notice
are not met within the period specified.
2. The student becomes subject to academic notice while on
administrative-academic notice.
3. The student becomes subject to administrative-academic
notice for the same or similar reason they were previously
placed on administrative-academic notice, even if the first
notice was successfully remediated.
When such action is taken, the student shall receive written notification
including an explanation of the basis for the action.
Reinstatement of Academically Disqualified Students
The reinstatement of an academically disqualified graduate student is by
special action only. Students must submit a Petition for Reinstatement,
available on the Graduate Studies and Research website (https://
www.csudh.edu/gsr/) or in the Graduate Studies office. Students cannot
apply for readmission through the Cal State Apply process.
Students will only be considered for reinstatement after a minimum
of one-semester non-attendance following academic disqualification.
Approval of reinstatement is partially based on evidence that the
causes of previous low achievement have been removed or resolved.
At minimum, Petitions for Reinstatement must include a Statement
of Low Achievement that explains, in detail, how the causes of low
achievement have been corrected and what plans are in place to ensure
future academic success. Students may choose to provide supplemental
evidence, which could include, but is not limited to, transcripts of
coursework completed after disqualification, medical testimony, and/or
other objective evidence.
To prove their academic ability, academically disqualified graduate
students may also complete courses through CSUDH Open University
or at other regionally accredited academic institutions. Reinstated
students are not guaranteed to receive content credit for coursework
completed during disqualification. Grades earned elsewhere will not
reduce the CSUDH grade-point deficiency or change the CSUDH gradepoint average; grades earned elsewhere serve only as indicators of
academic ability. Units earned will not be counted towards university
residency requirements. Successful completion of coursework does not
guarantee reinstatement to the University or to the graduate program
from which the student was disqualified.
Students who have been disqualified from a master's degree program
may be admitted to another degree program on the recommendation
of the department concerned and with the approval of the appropriate
College Dean and the Dean of Graduate Studies and Research.
Petitions for Reinstatement and supplemental attachments should be
submitted to the Graduate Program Director of the disqualifying program.
Submission deadlines are as follows:
2024-25 University Catalog 133
Petitions for Reinstatement Submission Deadlines
Reinstatement Term Submission Deadlines
Fall Semester May 31
Spring Semester December 15
Summer Semester Not Accepted
The University reserves the right to request additional information from
the student regarding their Petition for Reinstatement. Students will be
notified of the reinstatement decision in writing by the Office of Graduate
Studies and Research approximately 4 – 6 weeks after submitting the
petition. Decisions are final and cannot be appealed.
If the Petition for Reinstatement is approved, the student will have
to agree to the terms and/or conditions identified by the program.
Graduate students are restricted to a maximum of one reinstatement
after academic disqualification.
Graduate Enrollment Policies
Advisors and Program Faculty
All graduate degree programs have a Graduate Program Director
designated to give overall supervision for the graduate program. In
many instances, the Graduate Program Director also serves as the
student's advisor. The program faculty are responsible for all major
recommendations to the Dean of Graduate Studies and Research
regarding the student's achievement of classified standing, Advancement
to Candidacy, and completion of the graduate degree.
It is the responsibility of the student to arrange appointments for
advisement and other information in the office of the academic unit
offering the degree program. At a minimum, students should obtain
advisement at the following critical times in their academic program:
1. prior to or during the first semester;
2. at the time of Advancement to Candidacy;
3. at the time of applying for graduation.
It is the student's responsibility to follow the procedures as outlined in
this catalog to ensure timely progress toward the degree and to ensure
compliance with all policies and regulations pertaining to the granting of
the graduate degree.
Residency Requirement
Of the minimum 30 semester units of approved course work required for
the master's degree, at least 21 units must be completed in residence
at CSUDH. A student is considered to be in residence when they have
been admitted to the university and to the graduate program and are
registered in regular or special sessions courses at CSUDH. Approved
units earned in summer sessions may be substituted for regular semester
unit requirements on a unit for unit basis. Extension coursework may not
be used to fulfill the minimum residence requirement.
Full-Time Status
The designation of enrollment as “part-time” or “full-time” varies by
University office. Graduate students are considered to be full-time
students during any semester in which they are enrolled in:
More than six units of graduate courses for the purposes of calculating
student fees; and
Eight or more units of graduate courses for the purposes of being
recognized as a full-time student by the University.
However, eligible graduate students may receive full financial aid
packages during semesters when they are enrolled in at least four units
of graduate program courses. Please consult Financial Aid for more
information.
Continuous Enrollment Requirement
A student with a graduate degree objective must maintain continuous
enrollment, defined as enrollment in regular or special session courses
each fall and spring semester of the academic year. Students who have
completed the maximum number of units required for the degree but
are completing their culminating activity may enroll in regular university
courses or in a specially designated 600-level course. Students must
have program permission to enroll in the 600-level course. If they choose
to enroll in regular university courses, students must continue to maintain
a grade point average of 3.0 in all courses taken until the degree is
granted. Students should check with their graduate program to determine
whether there are any limits on the number of semesters in which they
can enroll in the 600-level course.
Graduate students who fail to maintain continuous enrollment are
considered to have interrupted their residency and must reapply to the
university; such students will be subject to any new requirements of
the university or program. Students who break continuous enrollment
are not guaranteed readmission to the program, and if readmitted, lose
their residency credit (courses they may apply to the degree) and their
catalog rights. Loss of residency units means there is no guarantee
that more than 9 units of previous course work may apply to the degree
requirements upon readmission to the program.
Students who break continuous enrollment may petition to the College
Dean for reinstatement of residency units. Serious and compelling
reasons for breaking enrollment must be demonstrated. If the petition is
denied by the Dean, the student may request a hearing from the Graduate
Council.
Planned Educational Leave for Graduate Students
Graduate students in good academic standing may request a Planned
Educational Leave for personal, educational, financial, medical, or other
reasons to avoid a break in continuous enrollment. Students are eligible
to apply for a Planned Educational Leave if they:
• Completed at least one semester of coursework at CSUDH (fall
or spring)
• Previously earned units at CSUDH
• Have not applied to graduate in the semester of the requested
leave
• Are not enrolled in classes at any CSU in the semester of the
requested leave
• Have not been academically disqualified or had a previous break
in enrollment
Although reasons for seeking a planned leave may vary, all applicants
should intend to return to formal study within a specified time period.
To apply for a Planned Educational Leave, the student must be a
conditionally classified or classified graduate student with a grade point
average of 3.0 or better. Application for the leave must be filed with
the appropriate Graduate Program Director at least one week before
University Census (https://www.csudh.edu/academic-affairs/academiccalendar/) for the semester during which the leave is to begin and should
be accompanied by appropriate documentation.
134 Graduate Degrees
Students may request Planned Educational Leave for a minimum
duration of one semester up to a maximum duration of one calendar
year. Under compelling circumstances, a student may request, in writing
and in advance, an extension of an approved leave. The total number
of approved Planned Educational Leaves may not exceed two, and the
combined duration of Planned Educational Leaves may not total more
than two calendar years.
The Planned Educational Leave is approved at the discretion of the
student's Graduate Program Director. Approval of a student's leave
application constitutes agreement by the University that the student will
be temporarily exempted from the continuous enrollment requirement
as long as the student meets the conditions specified in the approved
leave application. Students who do not return to the University at the
conclusion of their planned leave will be considered to have withdrawn
from the University at the end of their last semester of regular enrollment
at CSU Dominguez Hills.
Approval of a planned leave does not constitute an extension of the time
period for completing all course work and other requirements for the
master's degree.
A student with an approved Planned Educational Leave shall be classified
as "on leave" and shall not be considered a regularly enrolled student.
Therefore, the student is not entitled to the campus services normally
provided to enrolled students, except that the student may confer with
their academic advisor and others regarding leave activity and plans for
re-enrollment.
Each student with an approved Planned Educational Leave will have
an entry made on their student record indicating that the student is on
leave. The dates of the beginning and conclusion of the leave will also be
recorded.
Election of Curriculum (Catalog Rights)
A student maintaining continuous enrollment in regular or special
sessions and continuing in the same program may elect to meet the
degree requirements in effect either at the time of entering the program
or at the time of completion of degree requirements. Students with
a break in enrollment, whether due to voluntary departure without an
approved Planned Educational Leave, previous academic disqualification,
or other lapse in continuous enrollment do not have catalog rights to their
initial admission semester and must elect to meet the requirements in
effect at either their time of readmission/reinstatement or time of degree
completion.
Credit for Prior Learning
In accordance with California State University Executive Order 1036,
academic credit may be earned from (1) examinations, (2) learning,
skills, and knowledge acquired through experience, (3) learning acquired
outside formal higher education and/or (4) education, training and service
provided by the Armed Forces of the United States. Consult your graduate
program for further information.
Time Limit for Completion
All requirements for the master's degree, including all course work in the
student's approved program of study, must be completed within five years
unless a time limit of seven years is noted in the program’s section of the
University Catalog. This time limit commences with the semester of the
earliest course used toward the student's program of study.
Outdated Course Work
Students are expected to complete all required coursework and the
culminating thesis, project, or examination for the master's degree
within five years (or seven years if permitted by the program). Outdated
coursework must be repeated or validated. Copies of the Petition for
Validation of Outdated Course Work may be obtained from the Graduate
Studies and Research office (https://www.csudh.edu/gsr/) and must be
approved by the graduate program director. Students must submit the
petition during the expected term of graduation.
Validated coursework shall not exceed 25% of the units required for the
master's degree (e.g., 8 units for a 30-unit program).
Outdated transfer coursework from other colleges or universities is not
eligible for validation.
Coursework that exceeds seven years by no more than one academic
year may be eligible for validation at the discretion of the Dean of
Graduate Studies and Research; beyond that time limit, coursework
cannot be validated.
Enrollment in Graduate Courses by Undergraduate
Students
Undergraduate students in their final year may petition to take two
graduate courses that are not used to fulfill the requirements for the
bachelor's degree. Approval must be obtained from the appropriate
Graduate Program Director prior to registration in order to receive
graduate credit for courses taken in the senior year. Petitions are
available in the Records and Registration office.
Requirements for the Graduate Degree
To be granted a graduate degree, a student must have been classified,
advanced to candidacy, and completed an approved program of study
in an approved field. Requirements that apply to all programs follow.
For specific requirements of particular programs, see the program
descriptions in the departmental section of this catalog.
The information below pertains to the requirements for the master's
degree. Doctoral students should consult their individual programs for
graduation requirements.
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MASTER’S DEGREE
General requirements for the master's degree program of study include:
• A minimum of 30 approved semester units, or more, as required by
the particular program.
• A minimum of 21 semester units in residence after admission to the
program offering the degree. Transfer and CSUDH extension course
work are not considered to be in residence.
• Maintaining continuous enrollment until graduation.
• At least 70% of the total units toward the degree must be in graduate
(500 level) courses; 300-level courses cannot be used unless the
graduate program has obtained an exception from the University
Curriculum Committee.
• A maximum of nine semester units of 500 level courses taken prior to
admission.
• A maximum of six units for a thesis or project.
• A maximum of six units of independent study.
• No courses taken to satisfy prerequisite requirements are included in
the minimum of 30 required units.
2024-25 University Catalog 135
• A minimum grade point average of 3.0 (B) in all courses counted
toward the degree.
• All courses completed within the program’s time limit based on the
date the degree is awarded. (Most programs have a time limit of five
years; check with the particular program.) Courses taken more than
eight years prior to the degree award date cannot be counted, without
exception.
• Advancement to Candidacy.
• Filing of the application for graduation by the application deadline.
• A capstone activity, which may be a thesis, a project, a
comprehensive examination, or any combination of these as
determined by the graduate program.
The approved program of study is valid as long as the student maintains
continuous enrollment in regular semesters at the University.
ADVANCEMENT TO CANDIDACY
Advancement to Candidacy recognizes that the student has
demonstrated the ability to sustain a level of scholarly competency
commensurate with successful completion of degree requirements. Upon
Advancement to Candidacy, the student is cleared for the final stages of
the graduate program which, in addition to any remaining course work,
will include the thesis, project, or comprehensive examination.
Following are the requirements for Advancement to Candidacy:
• A minimum of 15 units
• Classified graduate standing
• A cumulative GPA of 3.0 or above in all courses taken toward the
graduate degree
• No grade lower than a "C" in the degree program
Advancement to Candidacy must be certified by the program’s
department and communicated to the Graduate Studies and Research
office in the semester after the 15th unit was completed.
COMPLETION OF REQUIREMENTS AND AWARD OF THE DEGREE
The graduate degree is awarded upon the satisfactory completion of
all state and university requirements, the specific requirements for the
particular program, and the recommendation of the appropriate faculty
advisor and Graduate Program Director.
CULMINATING EXPERIENCE
All graduate degree programs require a culminating experience as defined
in CSU EP&R 82-39 (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/8523725/
latest/). This experience may be a thesis or dissertation, project, or
comprehensive exam. At the discretion of the graduate program, students
may be permitted to switch their culminating experience selection (e.g.,
from a comprehensive exam to a thesis, or vice versa).
Theses
All graduate students who undertake a thesis or project as their
culminating experience for a master's degree must follow the procedures
outlined the CSU Dominguez Hills "Thesis and Project Guide," available in
the university bookstore and online at the Graduate Studies website.
Graduate students may enroll in the thesis course for a maximum of six
units. The credit allowed for the thesis course varies, and students should
read their graduate program description for specific information.
Creative and Applied Projects
A creative or applied project is not sufficient in itself to meet the
requirement of a culminating activity. Although the content and structure
are more flexible for a creative or applied project than for a thesis, they
must consist of two distinct components: (a) the project itself, and (b)
an explanation of the project presented in a scholarly framework. Like a
thesis, the culminating project requires extensive graduate-level writing
incorporating original scholarship concerning areas important to the
discipline.
A master’s project may be presented in any of a variety of appropriate
media, including but not limited to digital media, videocassettes, CDs,
audio cassettes, slides, kits, ring binders, and book-type materials. The
scholarly framework introduces, justifies, and validates the applied or
creative project and discusses the project’s relationship to previous
scholarly activity in the field. The committee chair should be consulted
early in the process of planning the project to ensure that the required
elements are included in the scholarly framework. Students pursuing
culminating projects are encouraged to consult the "Thesis and Project
Guide," but are not obligated to conform to this format unless required by
their specific graduate program.
Graduate students may enroll in the culminating project course for a
maximum of six units. The credit allowed for the project course varies,
and students should read their graduate program description for specific
information.
Comprehensive Exams
A comprehensive examination is a written assessment of the student's
ability to integrate the knowledge of the area, show critical and
independent thinking, demonstrate mastery of the subject matter, and
demonstrate writing skills commensurate with the granting of the
master’s degree. The comprehensive examination is equivalent in rigor
to the thesis. A record of the examination questions and responses shall
be maintained in accordance with the records retention policy of the
California State University.
Given the above criteria, all comprehensive exams must include an essay
portion that comprises at least 50% of the examination.
In the case where comprehensive exams are divided into separate
components, such as by course or topic, each program shall inform
students in writing as to how each section will be graded and what the
retake policy will be for the exam.
To meet the requirements of the culminating experience and qualify for
the master’s degree, a student who has selected the comprehensive
exam must obtain a passing score or grade on the comprehensive exam
in the semester in which it is attempted.
ELIGIBILITY TO TAKE THE COMPREHENSIVE EXAM
Students must have met all requirements for Advancement to Candidacy.
Additionally:
• Students must be in good academic standing, defined as a
cumulative grade point average of 3.0 for all post-baccalaureate work,
whether part of the degree program or not.
• For 30-36 unit master's degrees, all course work must have been
previously completed or will be completed concurrently in the
semester the exam is taken. Students completing course work in the
summer session are not eligible to take the comprehensive exam in
the spring semester.
• For master's degrees that require more than 36 units, students may
take the exam one semester prior to completion of the program
provided a substantial amount of course work has been completed.
Each program will establish uniform requirements for eligibility
to take the exam and shall make these requirements available to
136 Academic Integrity
students in writing. A copy of the requirements shall be sent to the
Office of Graduate Studies.
• Student's eligibility to take the examination must be verified by the
Graduate Program Director.
ADMINISTRATION OF THE EXAM
Comprehensive exams must be administered within the six weeks
preceding the last day of scheduled final exams in the fall or spring
semesters.
LENGTH OF THE EXAM
The written portion of the comprehensive exam shall not be less than four
hours.
SCORING OF THE EXAM
Each reading of the comprehensive exam will be double-blind, i.e., the
student’s identity will not be known to the readers, and the readers'
identities will not be revealed to students.
Each exam will be scored by no less than two readers. If two readers read
the exam and disagree on the pass/fail score or grade, a third reader shall
read the exam under the same blind conditions prescribed for the original
reading.
RETAKING THE EXAM
Students who fail the comprehensive exam and choose to retake it
will take the exam at a regularly scheduled session (e.g., the following
semester).
Students who retake the exam shall take the exam in its current format,
regardless of the format of the original exam.
APPLICATION FOR GRADUATION
Master's and doctoral degree candidates should file for graduation in
accordance with the following schedule:
Graduation Term Regular Deadline Late Deadline
Fall Semester July 1 September 15
Spring Semester October 1 Last day of fall
semester
Summer Session February 1 April 15
If the above dates fall on a weekend or holiday, the deadline will be at the
close of business on the previous working day.
If all degree requirements are not completed during the term of the
application, a Change of Graduation Date form must be filed giving the
new term of degree completion together with the appropriate fee.
Graduate Commencement Exercises
Commencement Ceremonies are held at the end of each spring semester.
Students who have completed their degree requirements in the previous
fall semester, and those who will complete their course work in the spring
or summer semesters, are eligible to participate in the Commencement
Ceremony. Students must apply for one of these graduation terms by
April 15th to ensure that their name will appear in the Commencement
Program.
After a student applies for graduation, a Commencement Participation
link will be available in their student portal under “Important Student
Links.” Students must register through this link by April 15th to
participate in the Spring Commencement Ceremony.
Dates are subject to change and will be updated on the Commencement
website (https://www.csudh.edu/commencement/). Diplomas will be
mailed to students after verification that all academic requirements have
been completed.
Academic Integrity
The University Community
A university is a community of learners bonded together by the search
for knowledge; the pursuit of personal, social, cultural, physical, and
intellectual development; and the desire for the liberating effects of
an advanced education. California State University, Dominguez Hills
(CSUDH) has a culture—the academic culture—shared with other
universities and colleges across the nation. Integral to that culture is
a set of values such as academic freedom, dedication to teaching and
learning, diversity, civility toward others, and academic integrity.
Academic Integrity
Academic integrity is of central importance in the university community
and involves committed allegiance to the values, the principles, and the
code of behavior held to be central in that community. Integrity concerns
honesty and implies being truthful, fair, and free from lies, fraud, and
deceit.
The core of a university's integrity is its scholastic honesty. Honesty is
valued across all cultures and is a fundamental value in the academic
culture. There are, however, cultural differences with regard to the
ownership of ideas and the importance of individual efforts. Nonetheless,
the university expects all students and other campus members to
document the intellectual contributions of others and to ensure that the
work they submit is their own.
Education provides students with the resources to master content,
learn skills, and develop processes to maximize self potential and the
potential of others. Students must demonstrate mastery of each step
of learning by tangible products such as test performance, papers, and
presentations. This process enables the student and the instructor to
assess the student's readiness for the next steps and gives the student
the confidence to undertake future steps. Students who cheat may not
have mastered the necessary steps nor gained the necessary knowledge;
they miss the opportunity to gain an accurate picture of what they know
and what they do not know.
Cheating harms others and the institution in addition to limiting one's
own potential. Other students are rightfully angry when dishonest
students use inappropriate methods to get grades for which honest
students work hard. The fairness of the grading process is compromised
when a student falsely obtains a grade. Academic dishonesty may result
in loss of confidence in the system and devaluation of the quality of the
university degree.
The Nature of Academic Dishonesty
A standard definition of academic dishonesty has been provided by Kibler,
Nuss, Paterson, and Pavela (1988): Academic dishonesty usually refers
to forms of cheating and plagiarism which result in students giving or
receiving unauthorized assistance in an academic exercise or receiving
credit for work which is not their own.
They further define the following specific forms of academic dishonesty:
2024-25 University Catalog 137
Cheating—intentionally using or attempting to use unauthorized
materials, information, or study aids in any academic exercise. The term
academic exercise includes all forms of work submitted for credit or
hours.
Cheating also includes: unauthorized multiple submissions, altering or
interfering with grading, lying to improve a grade, altering graded work,
unauthorized removal of tests from classroom or office, and forging
signatures on academic documents.
Fabrication—intentional and unauthorized falsification or invention of any
information or citation in an academic exercise.
Facilitating academic dishonesty—intentionally or knowingly helping or
attempting to help another to violate a provision of the institutional code
of academic integrity.
Plagiarism—the deliberate adoption or reproduction of ideas or words or
statements of another person as one's own without acknowledgment.
(Presidential Memorandum 85-10) At the heart of any university are its
efforts to encourage critical reading skills, effective communication and,
above all, intellectual honesty among its students. Thus, all academic
work submitted by a student as his or her own should be in his or her own
unique style, words and form. When a student submits work that purports
to be his/her original work, but actually is not, the student has committed
plagiarism.
Plagiarism is considered a gross violation of the University's academic
and disciplinary standards. Plagiarism includes the following: copying
of one person's work by another and claiming it as his or her own, false
presentation of one's self as the author or creator of a work, falsely taking
credit for another person's unique method of treatment or expression,
falsely representing one's self as the source of ideas or expression, or the
presentation of someone else's language, ideas or works without giving
that person due credit. It is not limited to written works. For example,
one could plagiarize music compositions, photographs, works of art,
choreography, computer programs or any other unique creative effort.
Plagiarism is cause for formal University discipline and is justification
for an instructor to assign a lower grade or a failing grade in the course
in which the plagiarism is committed. In addition, the University may
impose its own disciplinary measures.
Further information about the various forms of academic dishonesty
can be obtained from the office of any Instructional Dean or the Student
Development office. Individual departments and faculty may also provide
specific examples.
Who Has the Responsibility for Promoting
Academic Integrity and Preventing
Academic Dishonesty?
Faculty Responsibility
The faculty as representatives of the institution have the opportunity
to encourage academic integrity and the responsibility to discourage
and curtail academic fraud. At CSUDH, incidents should be reported to
the Office of the Vice President of Student Affairs. Unless incidents are
reported to a central location, repeated violations may go undetected as
they occur in separate departments or with different faculty. The Vice
President of Student Affairs will notify the student if a report is received.
Student Responsibility
Students are responsible for the integrity of their actions and must be
willing to accept consequences for these actions. Students have the
responsibility to be familiar with the University policies and to seek
clarification with faculty if they are unclear about expectations for
any assignment. Students are also encouraged to report academic
dishonesty. In the sense that a university is a community, students should
understand their own role in the creation of the kind of environment that
encourages honesty and discourages academic fraud. Students need
not tolerate any action on the part of another that diminishes their own
integrity or that of the university.
Options for Addressing Academic Dishonesty
When a faculty member detects dishonesty, he or she will address it.
If appropriate, the faculty member will first confront the student and
seek an "in-office" resolution. Remember the charge is an allegation that
should be examined under due process.
If the faculty member is convinced that dishonesty has occurred, she or
he will use one or more of the following options:
1. Adjust the evaluation of the student's work, i.e., nullify the effort or a
portion of it. This action may be taken as part of a decision regarding
assignment of a grade. The faculty member is not required to formally
report the incident through the campus disciplinary process but is
strongly encouraged to do so.
2. Refer the matter to the Vice President for Student Affairs for an
investigation as part of the Student Disciplinary Procedures. These
procedures call for due process, a hearing or the opportunity to waive
a hearing and accept a sanction without admitting guilt. (An "F" grade
supported by a decision in a disciplinary case may not be the subject
of a grade appeal and may not be repeated and canceled.)
3. Use both "a" and "b" above.
The California State University Disciplinary Procedures
Student enrollment is a voluntary entrance into the academic community
of learners. By such entrance, the student voluntarily assumes, and is
expected to assume, obligations of performance and behavior that are
imposed by the University relevant to its lawful missions, processes, and
functions. The University reserves the right to discipline students in order
to secure compliance with these obligations.
Students who engage in dishonest behavior are charged with violating
Title 5, California Administrative Code, Section 41301, under the Student
Disciplinary Procedures for the California State University established by
Executive Order #1098 by the Chancellor. A copy of these procedures may
be obtained from the Offices of the Vice President for Student Affairs or
Student Development.
University Regulations
Changes of Rules and Policies
Although every effort has been made to assure the accuracy of the
information in this catalog, students and others who use this catalog
should note that laws, rules, and policies change from time to time
and that these changes might alter the information contained in this
publication.
Changes may come in the form of statutes enacted by the Legislature,
rules and policies adopted by The Board of Trustees of the California
State University, by the Chancellor or designee of the California State
138 University Regulations
University, or by the president or designee of the university. It is not
possible in a publication of this size to include all of the rules, policies
and other information that pertain to students, the institution, and the
California State University. More current or complete information may
be obtained from the appropriate department, school, or administrative
office.
Nothing in this catalog shall be construed as, operate as or have the
effect of an abridgment or a limitation of any rights, powers, or privileges
of The Board of Trustees of the California State University, the Chancellor
of the California State University, or the president of the university. The
Trustees, the Chancellor, and the president are authorized by law to adopt,
amend, or repeal rules and policies that apply to students. This catalog
does not constitute a contract or the terms and conditions of a contract
between the student and the university or the California State University.
The relationship of students to the university and the California State
University is one governed by statute, rules, and policy adopted by the
Legislature, the Trustees, the Chancellor, the Presidents and their duly
authorized designees.
CSU Immunization Requirements
In accordance with the CSU Immunization Requirements policy,
undergraduate and graduate students, students matriculated in selfsupport degree programs and K-12 students participating in concurrent
enrollment courses entering the California State University (CSU) in or
after fall 2023.
Immunization and Screening, Recommendations and Requirements
are adopted from the American College Health Association (ACHA)
Immunization Recommendations for College Students linked here, and
the California Department of Public Health (CDPH) Immunization &
Screening Recommendations for College Students linked here.
See the CSU Immunization Requirements policy for more information
regarding additional authorized discretionary requirements, academic
program and fieldwork or clinical placement requirements, or
immunization access.
NOTE: Any revisions of the CDPH recommendations for colleges
and universities as of February 1, each year, will be reflected in CSU
recommendations for the subsequent fall academic term.
Exemptions
A student may be exempted from any requirements in this policy as
described below:
Medical Exemption: due to a medical condition for which an Approved
Vaccine presents a significant risk of a serious adverse reaction. Any
medical Exemption must be verified by a certified or licensed healthcare
professional.
Religious Exemption: due to either (i) a person's sincerely held religious
belief, observance, or practice, which includes any traditionally
recognized religion, or (ii) beliefs, observances, or practices which an
individual sincerely holds and that occupy a place of importance in that
individual's life, comparable to that of traditionally recognized religions.
Required Immunization
Hepatitis B (Hep B) -- Age 18 and younger per California law (HSC
sections 120390-120390-7), enrollees who are 18 years of age or younger
are required to provide proof of full immunization against hepatitis B virus
prior to enrollment.
Immunization and Screening Recommendation
The CSU recommends that students are current for the immunization
listed below. Immunizations and screening recommendations, and
immunization schedules are linked above. Campuses should link to this
policy to provide students with detailed immunization and screening
recommendations.
Recommended Vaccines to Reduce Outbreaks
A. Influenza Vaccine
B. Measles, Mumps and Rubella (MMR) Vaccine
C. Meningococcal Conjugate (Serogroups A, C, Y, W-135) Vaccine
D. Serogroup B Meningococcal Vaccine
E. Tetanus-Diphtheria-Pertussis (Tdap) Vaccine
F. Varicella (Chickenpox) Vaccine
Other Vaccines Recommended for Adults
A. Hepatitis A (Hep A) Vaccine
B. Hepatitis B (Hep B) Vaccine
C. Human Papillomavirus (HPV) Vaccine
D. Pneumococcal Vaccine
E. Polio Vaccine
Recommended Screening
A. Tuberculosis Screen/Risk Assessment (TB)
The above are not admission requirements but are required of students
as conditions of enrollment in CSU.
Reservation
The university reserves the right to select its students and deny
admission to the university or any of its programs as the university, in its
sole discretion, determines appropriate based on an applicant's suitability
and the best interests of the university.
First Class Meeting
Students should report to the first meeting of their scheduled classes.
(Check the Class Schedule for room numbers.) Students are responsible
for attendance and will earn grades in the courses and specific sections
in which they have enrolled.
Prior to the end of the second week of classes, an instructor may, by
following the appropriate procedures, initiate a formal drop of students
who:
• have missed the first two class meetings of a term (or the first
meeting if the class meets only once a week), and
• have not advised the instructor (or the department chair, if no
instructor was assigned to the course in advance) that their absence
is temporary.
2024-25 University Catalog 139
The instructor should inform the Registrar of this action by the end of the
second week.
It is, however, the responsibility of the student to make certain that his/
her drop has been officially recorded. Continued absence from a class
for which a student has not been dropped by the instructor may yield
an unauthorized incomplete ("WU" grade) which is computed as an
"F". Students who are in doubt as to whether or not an instructor has
dropped them from the class should check before the end of the Change
of Program (Add/Drop) period.
Change of Name or Address
Current and former students may change their legal name by submitting
a change of name/address form to the Office of Admissions and Records.
Appropriate state or court issued documentation that indicates a name
change along with a valid photo identification card must be included
with this form. The documentation can included but is not limited to the
following:
• Marriage License
• Certificate of Naturalization
• Adoption/Birth Certificate
• Divorce Decree (stating restored name)
• Court Order
• Alien Registration Card
The documentation submitted must include the student's new and former
name.
Current students may change their preferred name, which is the name
the student wishes to be commonly known as, if different from their legal
name.
Except when the use of an individual’s legal (or primary) name is required
by law, current students may be identified by a preferred name. California
State University, Dominguez Hills wishes to allow its community to use
a preferred name in order to give members an empowering, safe, and
nondiscriminatory university experience. Every member of the campus
community should feel empowered to be called by the name of their
choosing. Equally important, no one should feel pressure to change their
name for the acceptance or convenience of others.
A student may change their preferred first and/or middle names on their
student center, My.CSUDH.edu (http://My.CSUDH.edu). The student’s
preferred name will be visible in the below areas, and may be subject to
change:
• My.CSUDH.edu (http://My.CSUDH.edu)
• Class Rosters
• Grade Rosters
• Faculty Center - Class/Grade Roster
• Advisee Student Center – all tabs within advisee student services
center
• Academic Requirements Reports
Preferred names will not be used for official university record purposes
such as enrollment verification, official transcripts, employment and
payroll records, and, but not limited to, financial aid. Additionally,
changing the preferred name will not change a student’s email address
that appears in the student’s record.
Any attempt to misuse preferred name policy for purposes of
misrepresentation or fraud may result in a violation of the Student
Conduct code and be referred to the Office of Student Life.
Change of Program after Registration
A change of program after registration is any change made in a student's
official schedule. Changes include dropping a class, adding a class,
changing the number of units for a class in which the student is
registered and changing from one section to another of the same course.
A change of program must be made before the deadline date listed for
each semester in the official University Academic Calendar.
Adding Classes
All classes, regardless of their start date, must be added no later
than student census. To add a course during the first three weeks of
instruction, instructor approval is required. Instructors provide approval
by issuing a Late Registration Permission Number (LRPN) for the course.
Late Registration Permission Numbers expire at the end of the third
week of the semester and should be used as soon as possible. To add
classes the fourth week of the semester, students must submit a Change
of Program form with signatures from the class instructor, the program
chair, and the dean to the Registrar's Office.
Official Withdrawal from a Course
See the Academic Calendar for specific deadline dates for withdrawing
from courses during a particular term.
Prior to the Start of the Term
Students may drop prior to the start of the term/semester without penalty
or record of enrollment. Drops or withdrawals that occur during this
period are not included in the Undergraduate 18 unit limit. Students
dropping all courses during this period will not incur a prorated fee
assessment.
Weeks 1-3
During the first three weeks of each semester, students may drop all
or a portion of their classes via MyCSUDH without approval of the
instructor. No grade is assigned, and the enrollment does not appear on
the student's permanent record. Drops or withdrawals during this period
do not count against the undergraduate 18 unit limit. Students dropping
all courses during this period will incur a prorated fee assessment.
Exception: Department Chair approval is required in order to drop
developmental English and Math courses.
Week 4
After the third week of classes but before student census, students
can drop courses by submitting a Change of Program (Add/Drop) form
and signatures form and signatures with signatures from the course
instructor and program chair to the Registrar's Office. Students dropping
courses during this period will incur a prorated fee.
Weeks 5-12
An administrative grade of "W" may be assigned up to the end of week
12 provided the student's withdrawal request form lists serious and
compelling reasons, and has the approval of the instructor and the
department chair (or dean). Documentation is required before such a
withdrawal is approved. Drops and withdrawals during this period will
count against the undergraduate 18 unit limit.
140 University Regulations
Weeks 13-15
Withdrawals shall not be permitted during this period of instruction
except in cases, such as accident or serious illness, where the cause of
withdrawal is due to circumstances clearly beyond the student's control
and the assignment of an Incomplete is not practical. Withdrawals during
this time of the semester are only allowable for all classes. Permission
to withdraw during this time shall be granted only with the approval of
the instructor, department chair, and dean. Documentation is required
before such a withdrawal is approved. A reason for withdrawal must be
provided for all requests to withdraw during this period. Withdrawals that
occur during this period will not count against the Undergraduate 18 unit
withdrawal limit.
Final Exams
Once final examinations begin, no drops or withdrawals are allowed. A
student who does not officially withdraw shall receive "F," "WU," or "NC"
grades for all courses on his/her official record.
Prior to the Start of the Term
Students may drop prior to the start of the term/semester without penalty
or record of enrollment. Drops or withdrawals that occur during this
period are not included in the Undergraduate 18 unit limit. Students
dropping all courses during this period will not incur a prorated fee
assessment.
Weeks 1-3
During the first three weeks of each semester a student may drop all
or a portion of their classes via MyCSUDH without approval of the
instructor. No grade is assigned, and the enrollment does not appear on
the student's permanent record. Drops or withdrawals during this period
do not count against the undergraduate 18 unit limit. Students dropping
all courses during this period will incur a prorated fee assessment.
Exception: Department Chair approval is required in order to drop
developmental English and Math courses.
Week 4
After the third week of classes but before student census, students
can drop courses by submitting a Change of Program (Add/Drop) form
and signatures form and signatures with signatures from the course
instructor and program chair to the Office of Admissions and Records.
Students dropping courses during this period will incur a prorated fee.
Weeks 5-12
An administrative grade of "W" may be assigned up to the end of week
12 provided the student's withdrawal request form lists serious and
compelling reasons. Permission to withdraw during this time shall be
granted only with the approval of the instructor and the department chair
(or dean). Documentation may be required before such a withdrawal is
approved. Drops and withdrawals during this period will count against the
undergraduate 18 unit limit.
Weeks 13-15
Withdrawals shall not be permitted during this period of instruction
except in cases, such as accident or serious illness, where the cause of
withdrawal is due to circumstances clearly beyond the student's control
and the assignment of an Incomplete is not practical. Withdrawals during
this time of the semester are only allowable for all classes. Permission
to withdraw during this time shall be granted only with the approval of
the instructor, department chair, and dean. Documentation is required
before such a withdrawal is approved. A reason for withdrawal must be
provided for all requests to withdraw during this period. Withdrawals that
occur during this period will not count against the Undergraduate 18 unit
withdrawal limit.
Final Exams
Once final examinations begin, no drops or withdrawals are allowed. A
student who does not officially withdraw shall receive "F," "WU," or "NC"
grades for all courses on his/her official record.
Grading
Credit Hour
On July 1, 2020, the United States Department of Education changed its
definition of the student credit hour. Fundamentally, the change shifted
responsibility for credit hour compliance to the accreditation agency and/
or to the state.
As such, the CSU’s accreditor, the WASC Senior College and University
Commission (WSCUC), has published its own updated definition of
student credit hour and related accreditation processes. The new
regulations no longer require an accrediting agency to review an
institution’s credit hour policy and procedures. It does require the WSCUC
to review the institution’s definition of credit hour and an institutions’
processes and policies for ensuring the credit hour policy is followed.
The CSU credit hour definition is consistent with federal law (600.2 and
600.4 revised July 1, 2020) and the requirements of the WSCUC. The
CSU defines a credit hour as an amount of work represented in stated
learning outcomes and verified by evidence of student achievement. Such
evidence is an institutionally established equivalency that:
1. Approximates not less than:
a. One hour of direct faculty instruction and a minimum of two
hours of out-of-class student work each week for approximately
15 weeks for one semester or equivalent amount of work over a
different amount of time; or
b. At least an equivalent amount of work as required in paragraph
1.a. of this definition for other academic activities as established
by the institution including laboratory work, internships, practice,
studio work and other academic work leading to the award of
credit hours; and
2. Permits an institution, in determining the amount of work associated
with a credit hour, to take into account a variety of delivery methods,
measurements of student work, academic calendars, disciplines
and degree levels. Institutions have the flexibility to award a greater
number of credits for courses that require more student work.
As in the past, a credit hour is assumed to be a 50-minute (not 60-minute)
period. In some courses, such as those offered online asynchyronously,
in which "seat time" does not apply, a credit hour may be measured by an
equivalent amount of work, as demonstrated by student achievement.
For purposes of accreditation, all CSUs are required to develop,
communicate and implement procedures for regular, periodic review
of this credit hour policy to ensure that credit hour assignments are
accurate, reliable and consistently applied. WSCUC published new draft
guidelines that will take effect in June 2021. Universities are responsible
for publishing a clearly stated practice or process that ensures they are in
compliance with the student credit hour definition.
2024-25 University Catalog 141
Grades and Grade Points
Student performance in each course is reported at the end of each
semester by one of the following grades (with the grade points earned):
Grade Description Grade Points
A Excellent 4.0
A- 3.7
B+ 3.3
B Very Good 3.0
B- 2.7
C+ 2.3
C Satisfactory 2.0
C- 1.7
D+ 1.3
D Barely Passing 1.0
F Failure 0.0
I Incomplete (Not
counted in grade point
average)
IC Incomplete Charged
WU Withdrawal
Unauthorized
W Withdrawal (Not
counted in grade point
average)
The following grades are to be used for approved courses only:
Grade Description Grade Points
AU Audit (Not counted in
grade point average; no
units allowed)
CR Credit (Not counted in
grade point average;
but units count for
bachelor's degree)
NC No credit (Not counted
in grade point average;
no units allowed)
RP Report in Progress
(Credit is deferred until
completion of course)
CR* Graduate Continuation
Course
Explanation of Grading Symbols
I, IC, WU, W, CR, NC, RP, RD
Incomplete Grade (I). The symbol "I" (Incomplete Authorized) indicates
that a portion of required course work has not been completed and
evaluated in the prescribed time period due to unforeseen, but fully
justified, reasons and that there is still a possibility of earning credit.
It is the responsibility of the student to bring pertinent information to
the attention of the instructor and to determine from the instructor the
remaining course requirements, which must be satisfied to remove
the "Incomplete." A final grade is assigned when the work agreed upon
has been completed and evaluated. This approval will indicate that the
department has made provisions for assuring that the student's work
will be graded and that a Change of Grade form will be submitted to the
Registrar's Office.
An "Incomplete" must normally be made up within one calendar year
following the end of the term during which it was assigned. However,
an extension may be granted by petition for contingencies such as
intervening military service and serious health or personal problems. If
the "Incomplete" is not converted to a credit-bearing grade within the
prescribed time limit, or any extension thereof, it shall be counted as
a failing grade in calculating grade point average and progress points
unless the faculty member has assigned another grade in accordance
with campus policy.
Normally, the student is responsible for applying for the grade of
"Incomplete" and for obtaining instructor approval for the assignment
of this grade. In exceptional circumstances, the assignment of the
"Incomplete" may be initiated by the instructor. For each "Incomplete"
grade assigned, the instructor will complete a Request for Incomplete
Grade on which he or she will indicate:
1. The reason for granting the "Incomplete;"
2. The amount or nature of the work to be completed;
3. The date by which the student must make up the work.
This limitation prevails whether or not the student maintains continuous
enrollment. Failure to complete the assigned work will result in an
"Incomplete" being converted to an "IC" symbol (Failing grade for grade
point average computation), unless the faculty member assigns a
specific letter grade at the time the Incomplete is assigned, which would
replace the "I" in the student's record after the calendar year deadline.
The student is responsible for contacting the instructor (or the
department, in cases where the instructor is unavailable) regarding the
provisions for completion of course work. A definitive grade for the term
is recorded when the work has been completed. An "Incomplete" grade
cannot be removed by repeating the course. A student may not re-enroll
in a course for which he or she has received an "I" until a grade (e.g.
A-F, IC, NC) is given. Students re-enrolled in a course for which an "I"
was granted will be dropped from the course at the time the "I" grade is
received from the instructor. The grade will be automatically recorded as
an "IC" or "NC" if the work is not completed and grade changed within a
year.
Change of Grade forms for removal of "Incomplete" grades in courses
required for graduation must be submitted by the last day of the
semester or session of anticipated graduation.
Change of Grade forms are available in academic departmental offices.
It is the student's responsibility to initiate the process and have the
instructor submit the Change of Grade form to the Registrar's Office
within the time period allowed. No grades can be changed for any reason
after a degree has been granted.
Incomplete Charged (IC). The "IC" symbol may be used when a student
who received an authorized incomplete "I" has not completed the required
course work within the allowed time limit. The "IC" replaces the "I" and
is counted as a failing grade for grade point average and progress point
computation.
Withdrawal Unauthorized (WU). The symbol "WU" shall be used when
a student, who was enrolled on the census date, did not withdraw
from the course and also failed to complete course requirements. It is
used when, in the opinion of the instructor, completed assignments or
course activities or both were insufficient to make normal evaluation of
142 University Regulations
academic performance possible. The "WU" is used where letter grades are
assigned. For purposes of grade point average computation, is equivalent
to an "F". Unlike the "I" grade, the "WU" grade may not be changed by
submitting additional work. Rather, the student must re-enroll in the
course and, if appropriate, use the repeat and cancel process.
Withdrawal (W). Students who withdraw in accordance with the
procedures outlined in the preceding section on official withdrawal will
have the administrative grade "W" recorded on their transcripts if the
withdrawal is approved and occurs between the 4th and 15th weeks of
instruction. The symbol "W" indicates that the student was permitted
to withdraw from the course after the 3rd week of instruction with the
approval of the instructor and appropriate campus officials. It carries
no connotation of quality of student performance and is not used in
calculating grade point average or progress points.
A student who does not officially withdraw shall receive "F," "WU," or "NC"
grades for all courses on his/her official schedule.
Credit/No Credit Grades (CR/NC) and A-CR/NC: Undergraduate. Certain
courses, designated in the University Catalog, are graded on a Credit/
No Credit (CR/NC) basis only. Other departmentally designated courses
in basic skills reasoning and departmentally designated upper division
composition courses replace the "A-F" grading system with an "A-C/NC"
system.
Students may elect to be graded on a "CR/NC" basis in other courses,
subject to the guidelines below. "CR/NC" grades affect the grade point
average in the ways described below:
1. Courses used to satisfy a major (both upper and lower divisions),
or which are prerequisite to them, must be taken for a letter grade
except when such courses are graded solely on a "CR/NC" basis. A
student is permitted to enroll in up to 50 percent of the units required
by a minor on a credit/no credit basis, unless otherwise specified
elsewhere in the University Catalog under specific requirements for a
minor.
2. No more than 24 units graded "CR/NC'', whether taken at this or
another institution, may be offered in satisfaction of the total units
required for a bachelor's degree. If 24 units graded "CR/NC" are
accepted in transfer, no additional courses graded "CR/NC" may be
used to satisfy degree requirements, except when a required course
is graded solely on a "CR/NC" basis. (All credits earned in the CLEP
testing program may count even if they make the cumulative total of
all "CR/NC" units at that time over 24.)
3. Selection of the CR/NC grading option must be made during the first
three weeks of instruction. Forms are available in the Office of the
Registrar and on the Admissions and Records website.
4. Students who plan to apply to Law School should know that the Law
School Data Assembly Service evaluates a "NC" grade in CR/NC class
as a failing grade.
Both Credit (CR) and No Credit (NC) grades are recorded on student
transcripts.
The undergraduate Credit grade is the equivalent of an "A," "A-," "B+," "B,"
"B-," "C+," or "C"; and the "NC" grade is the equivalent of a "C-", "D+", "D", or
"F."
"CR/NC" grades are not computed in overall or semester grade point
averages.
Credit/No Credit (CR/NC): Post baccalaureate and Graduate Students.
1. Graduate courses graded on a "CR/NC" basis are limited to courses
specifically designated in the University Catalog for nontraditional
grading and to certain 400 and 500 level courses in the School of
Education.
2. At the graduate level, "CR" is the equivalent of an "A," "A-," "B+," or "B";
and "NC" is the equivalent of "B-," "C+," "C," "C-," "D+," "D" or "F."
3. At least 24 of the units used to fulfill the requirements for a master's
degree shall be graded on a traditional basis. The remaining units
may be graded "CR/NC," if the course is offered only on that basis.
4. Graduate level students are allowed to elect to receive Credit/No
Credit grades in courses numbered below 500 that will not be used to
satisfy the requirements of a graduate degree program.
Report in Progress (RP). The "RP" symbol is used in connection with
courses that extend beyond one academic term. It indicates that work is
in progress but that assignment of a final grade must await completion
of additional work. Work is to be completed within one year except for
graduate degree theses.
The "RP" symbol shall be used in connection with thesis, project, and
similar courses in which assigned work frequently extends beyond a
single academic term and may include enrollment in more than one
term. The "RP" symbol shall be replaced with the appropriate final grade
within one year of its assignment except for master's thesis enrollment,
in which case the time limit shall be established by the appropriate
campus authority. The president or designee may authorize extension of
established time limits.
Report Delayed (RD). The "RD" symbol may be used where a delay in
the reporting of a grade is due to circumstances beyond the control of
the student. The symbol may be assigned by the registrar only and, if
assigned, shall be replaced by a substantive grading symbol as soon as
possible. An "RD" shall not be used in calculating grade point average or
progress points. Although no catalog statement is required, whenever
the symbol is employed, an explanatory note shall be included in the
transcript legend. The registrar shall notify both the instructor of record
and the department chair within two weeks of the assignment of RD
grades.
Auditing a Class
A student not admitted to, nor enrolled in, the University must file
a Statement of Residence prior to auditing a course. A residence
determination must be made so that appropriate fees may be charged.
Auditors must pay the same fees as would be charged if the courses
were taken for credit. A student who wishes to audit a course must obtain
the approval of the instructor on the Approval for Audit form available in
the Registrar's Office. The approval may not be obtained prior to the first
day of instruction. Enrollment as an auditor is subject to permission of
the instructor provided that enrollment in a course as an auditor shall be
permitted only after students otherwise eligible to enroll on a credit basis
have had an opportunity to do so. Auditors are subject to the same fee
structure as credit students and regular class attendance is expected.
Once enrolled as an auditor, a student may not change to credit status
unless such a change is requested no later than the last day to add
classes in that tern. A student who is enrolled for credit may not change
to audit after the third week of instruction. Credit for courses audited
will not subsequently be granted on the basis of the audit. An audited
course should be taken into consideration when planning a program so
that the study load will not be excessive. The symbol AU will appear on
the student's record for audited courses.
2024-25 University Catalog 143
Grade Point Average
The grade point average at CSU Dominguez Hills is computed on a 4-
point scale. A specified number of grade points is associated with each
grade listed in the "Grades and Grade Points" section. "CR/NC" grades
have no grade point value and are not calculated in the grade point
average.
The total grade points are calculated by multiplying the number of grade
points associated with the grade assigned by the number of units for
each class. The grade point average is computed by dividing the total
number of grade points earned by the total number of units attempted.
Grade Point Average Required for Continuing Student Status
Undergraduate students are required to maintain a cumulative grade
point average of 2.0 in all college courses, all courses taken at CSU
Dominguez Hills, and in all courses in the declared major(s) and minor.
In order to be eligible for graduation, students must be in good academic
standing, must have an overall GPA of 2.0 or above, and must have
a grade point average of 2.0 in all courses used to fulfill the degree
requirements. See "Undergraduate Academic Notice and Disqualification
(p. 121)" for specific grade point averages required for ongoing
enrollment.
Exploring post baccalaureate and Credential Students. A grade point
average of 2.5 is required for course work taken by students in exploring
post baccalaureate and credential status. See "Graduate and Post
baccalaureate Academic Notice and Disqualification (p. 129)" for
specific requirements.
Master's Degree Students. A grade point average of 3.0 is required in
the master's degree program and for all courses (related and unrelated,
lower division, upper division, and graduate) taken concurrently with
the master's degree program (i.e., all courses taken beginning with the
date of admission to the program). In order to be eligible for graduation,
students must be in good academic standing, must have an overall
GPA of 3.0 or above, and must have a grade point average of 3.0 in all
courses used to fulfill the degree requirements. See "Graduate and Post
baccalaureate Academic Notice and Disqualification (p. 129)" for
specific grade point averages required for ongoing enrollment.
Grade Changes, Grade Appeals and
Repeat and Cancel
Change of Grade
In general, all course grades are final when filed by the instructor at the
end of the semester.
A change of letter-to-letter grade (excluding changes by petition and
administrative grades of "AU," "I," "RD," "RP," "W," and "WU") may occur only
in cases of clerical error, administrative error, or as a disciplinary sanction
or when the instructor reevaluates the original course assignments of
a student and discovers an error in the original evaluation. Change of
letter-to-letter grades must be filed by the instructor within one semester
after the original grade was submitted. If the change of grade is initiated
after the semester following the assignment of the original grade or
is being submitted for any reason other than those above, a petition
must be filed along with a Change of Grade card. The Change of Grade
card must contain the signatures of the instructor, department chair,
and school dean. It must be submitted with the signed petition to the
Student Academic Petitions and Appeals Committee (SAPAC) for action.
Supporting documentation must accompany the petition.
In some cases, students may wish to petition to have grades changed
to retroactive withdrawals. Retroactive withdrawals must be complete
withdrawals from the university. The acceptable reasons for granting
retroactive withdrawals are limited to:
1. documented accident or illness,
2. other serious and compelling reasons which prevent withdrawal from
the university before the scheduled deadline and/or
3. evidence of timely submission of proper forms for withdrawal.
Requests for retroactive withdrawals must be submitted by petition to the
Student Academic Petitions and Appeals Committee within two years of
the end of the semester in which the grade was assigned.
"WU" or "F" grades may be changed to "W" by petition only.
This process generally requires documentation of extenuating
circumstances, such as physical inability to appear on campus to
properly withdraw. The petition requires the recommendation of the
instructor involved and of the appropriate school dean. A final action is
taken by the Student Academic Petitions and Appeals Committee based
upon the recommendations provided.
No grades can be changed for any reason after a degree has been
granted, including administrative grades of "I," "RD," "RP," "W," and "WU."
The university shall make every effort to remove "RDs" from the student's
transcript.
Grade Appeals
Students may appeal undergraduate or graduate grades which they
believe were the result of instructor, computational, or clerical error or
contrary to procedures established in course syllabi; or were prejudicial or
capricious.
Before initiating a formal grade appeal, students will seek informal
resolution with the instructor or Department Chair. Informal resolution
requires the student to meet with the faculty member or Department
Chair no later than 30 calendar days immediately following the
assignment of the original grade. This time line may be extended if the
student requests and receives an extension from the College Dean or
can demonstrate extenuating circumstances for the submission of a
grade appeal beyond 30 calendar days. If the matter is not resolved with
the instructor or Department Chair, the student may submit a formal
grade appeal, in writing, to the Dean of the College within 21 calendar
days after receiving the decision of the instructor or Department Chair.
Instructions for this submission are outlined in the Student Rights and
Responsibilities Handbook,http://www.csudh.edu/admissions-records/
records/grade/index#appeals (http://www.csudh.edu/admissionsrecords/records/grade/index/#appeals)
The College Dean will investigate the student claim and attempt to
resolve the appeal within 21 calendar days. If the matter is not resolved in
the college the appeal is forwarded to the Student Grade Appeals Board.
The review process and procedures of the Student Grade Appeals Board
are detailed in the Student Rights and Responsibilities Handbook. A panel
of two faculty members and one student member from the Board reviews
the appeal materials and determine by majority vote whether or not cause
exists for a grade change. A written decision of the panel will be sent to
the student appellant and all individuals involved in the appeal.
Repeat and Cancel Policy
Repeat and Cancel may be used by students working toward
a baccalaureate degree. It may not be used by graduate/post-
144 University Regulations
baccalaureate students working on master's degrees, graduate
certificates, teaching credentials, or by "exploring" graduate students,
even when they might take undergraduate courses.
1. In the case of a repeated course, the subsequent grade is substituted
for the earlier one in the computation of units attempted and grade
point average. The previous course grade(s) remain(s) on the record,
but is/are annotated as being discounted from grade point average
calculations.
2. Repeat and Cancel may only be used on courses taken at CSU
Dominguez Hills and repeated at CSU Dominguez Hills through Open
University, regular university or special sessions.
3. Beginning Fall 2009, Repeat and Cancel may be used for no more
than 16 semester units taken at CSU Dominguez Hills during the
entire undergraduate degree program.
4. Undergraduate students may be permitted to repeat an additional 12
units, i.e. units in addition to the 16 units for which grade forgiveness
is permitted. In such instances the repeat grade shall not replace
the original grade, instead, both grades shall be calculated into the
student's overall grade-point average.
5. Undergraduate students may repeat an individual course no more
than two times.
6. Repeat and Cancel may be used only on grades of "WU," "F," "D," "D+,"
"C-," "IC."
7. Students must complete a Notice of Repeated Course form for each
course repeated that meets all Repeat and Cancel policy guidelines
if the original course was taken prior to fall 2008 or if they wish to
select which eligible courses are to be excluded from the grade point
average computation.
8. A grade entered as a result of the student disciplinary procedures
under Executive Order No. 628 cannot be cancelled and will be
included in the grade point average.
9. Graduate and post baccalaureate students may repeat courses;
however, the two grades will be averaged into the total grade point
average. Credit for the courses will be granted only once and courses
may be repeated only once.
Concurrent Enrollment at a Non-CSU
Institution
Concurrent enrollment in resident courses or in extension courses in
a non-CSU institution is permitted only when the entire program has
received the approval of the departmental major advisor. This approval
must be obtained before any course work is started. The purpose of
this procedure is to ensure that all courses taken elsewhere will meet
the requirements of the University and that the total program will not
constitute an excessive study load.
It is the student's responsibility to ensure that all work completed during
his/her term of graduation is completed prior to the established CSU
Dominguez Hills degree date. Work completed at another institution after
the established CSU Dominguez Hills degree date cannot be used to
satisfy graduation requirements until the next term.
Cross Enrollment
Undergraduate students enrolled at CSUDH may enroll, without formal
admission and without payment of additional State University fees, in one
transferable course each academic term at participating campuses of
the University of California or California Community Colleges, on a space
available basis for $10.00.
A CSUDH student must meet all of the following conditions to enroll at a
University of California or Community College campus:
• Must be an undergraduate.
• Must be enrolled in at least 6 units at CSUDH during the semester of
Cross Enrollment and show proof of payment of registration fees.
• Must be a California resident.
• Must have completed at least 12 units with a GPA of at least 2.0.
• The course (which must be transferable) must be pre-approved by the
University Advisement Center before you take your application to the
Cross Enrollment campus for processing.
A University of California or California Community College student
coming to CSUDH must meet all of the following conditions:
• Must have completed at least one term at the home campus as a
matriculated student.
• Must be enrolled at home campus in at least 6 units during the term
of Cross Enrollment.
• Must have a GPA of 2.0 for work completed.
• Must have paid appropriate tuition and fees at home campus for
current term.
• Must have completed appropriate academic preparation as
determined by CSUDH University Advisement Center.
• Must provide an official transcript with Cross Enrollment Application
to University Advisement Center.
• Must be a California resident.
• Other condition specified on the Cross Enrollment form pertaining to
registration procedures, deadlines and priorities of host campus.
Intrasystem and Intersystem Enrollment Programs
Fully matriculated students enrolled at any CSU have access to courses
at other CSUs on a space available basis unless those universities/
programs are impacted. This access is offered without students being
required to be admitted formally to the host university and in most cases
without paying additional fees. Students should consult their home
university academic advisors to determine how such courses may apply
to their specific degree programs before enrolling at the host university.
There are two programs for enrollment within the CSU and one for
enrollment between CSU and the University of California or California
Community Colleges. Additional information about these programs is
available from the Registrar's Office.
CSU Fully Online Courses – Matriculated students in good standing
may request enrollment in one course per term, offered by a CSU host
university. Enrollment requests will be granted based on available space,
as well as completion of any stated prerequisites. Credit earned at the
host university is electronically reported to the student’s home university
to be included on the student’s transcript at the home university.
CSU Visitor Enrollment – Matriculated students in good standing enrolled
at one CSU may enroll at another CSU for one term. Credit earned at the
host university is reported at the student’s request to the home university
to be included on the student’s transcript at the home university.
Intersystem Cross Enrollment – Matriculated CSU, UC, or community
college students may enroll on a “space available” basis for one course
per term at another CSU, UC, or community college and request that a
transcript of record be sent to the home university.
2024-25 University Catalog 145
Eligibility Requirements
Undergraduate students must have completed at least one term at the
home campus as a matriculated student, earned at least twelve units
there, attained a grade point average of 2.0 or better in all work completed
at the home campus, and be in good standing at that campus. Visitors
must be eligible to register under continuing status at the home campus.
Graduate students must have completed at least one term at the home
campus as a matriculated student, been admitted to or be enrolled in
an authorized graduate program at the home campus, and be in good
standing at the last college attended.
Enrollment Conditions
1. Approval will be valid for one term only and subject to space
availability, deadlines and registration priorities of host campus.
2. Academic advisement is available only at the home campus.
3. Evidence of completion of course prerequisites may be required at
time of enrollment (i.e., transcript or grade reports).
4. Concurrent enrollment at another CSU campus is not possible while
in visitor status.
5. Financial aid is available only through home campus and students
eligible for Veterans, Rehabilitation, Social Security, and other Federal,
State, or County benefits must secure eligibility certification through
home campus.
6. Program changes will be accomplished following standard
procedures on both campuses. Official notification will be provided by
the host campus to the home campus. If a student withdraws from
the home campus and requests refund of the refundable portion of
the fees, the host campus must be notified by the home campus.
7. Permanent academic records are maintained at the host campus and
sent to the student and to the home campus.
8. Health services on host campus will be limited to treatment for
emergencies.
9. Because of overlap in the academic calendars, concurrent enrollment
is possible only in certain combinations.
Home Campus Host Campus Possible Not Possible
Sem Calendar
Fall Fall Qtr or Sem Winter Quarter
Spring Spring Qtr or Sem Winter Quarter
Qtr Calendar
Fall Fall Qtr or Sem
Winter Winter Qtr or Sem
Spring Spring Qtr or Sem Spring Sem
Summer Summer Qtr
(Note: Although summer quarter concurrent enrollment is not possible
for students whose home campus is on a semester calendar or on a
quarter calendar without a summer quarter, enrollment in visitor status is
possible.)
Home campus will be notified after a student registers at host campus
and pays any required nonresident tuition and user fees.
Participation in student activities or use of the student union at the host
campus is subject to any limitations set by the host campus.
Parking on the host campus will be available on the basis of a term fee
within campus parking availability or on a daily fee basis.
Information concerning host campus identification card policies will be
provided at registration.
Official Withdrawal from the University (Withdrawal
from all Courses)
Official withdrawal is necessary if a student leaves the University at any
time after registration and does not intend to complete the semester.
The forms for initiating this process (Complete Withdrawal form) may
be obtained from the University Information Center (WH D-245), from the
Registrar's Office (WH C-290), and on the Registrar's Office web site.
When official withdrawal from the University occurs before the semester
deadline for dropping classes (Student Census), there is no record of
enrollment. However, if official withdrawal occurs after the student
census, grades will be assigned in accordance with the policy above
on "Official Withdrawal from a Course." Students withdrawing from all
courses should determine if a leave of absence or graduation in absentia
is appropriate. Official withdrawals that occur between weeks 4 and 12
will result in a "W" grade, and will count against the Undergraduate 18 unit
limit. Official withdrawals that are approved and processed during weeks
13-15 will not count against the Undergraduate 18 unit limit. Withdrawals
in excess of 18 units cannot be processed and will result in a "WU" grade,
which is a failing grade included in the grade point average and progress
point computations.
A student who withdraws with "W" grades shall be classified as a
continuing student for the next semester.
Concurrent Course Scheduling
Students are not permitted to enroll in two or more courses that overlap
in time within any given academic semester without official written
approval on the Approval for Time Conflict form. Time Conflict forms are
available in the Registrar's Office and on the Registrar's Office web site.
Course Information/Syllabus
During the first week of classes an instructor is to distribute to the class
members printed information about the course. This course information
is to include at least the following items:
1. Course title and units.
2. Instructor name and availability outside of the class, include office
hours, office location, office telephone number and email address.
3. Prerequisites/co-requisites for the course.
4. Course description
5. Student learning outcomes for the course.
6. Required texts and other materials.
7. Required computer software/hardware capabilities.
8. Computer literacy skill expectations for students enrolled in the
course.
9. A specific reference to the University Catalog’s statement regarding
Academic Integrity and plagiarism expectations.
10. Course requirements, including reading and assignments, exams and
other types of assessments of student work.
11. The instructor’s grading policy including grading scale and weighted
value of assignments/tests.
12. Policy on attendance, assignment due dates and submission of late
work and missed exams.
13. A specific reference to the University Catalog’s statement regarding
accommodations for individuals with disabilities including services
146 University Regulations
provided by, and contact information (telephone number and emails
address) of the Student disAbility Resource Center.
14. A tentative schedule of class meetings and topics.
15. Explicit notations (traditional/on ground vs. virtual meeting) and
location of class meetings.
16. A schedule of all assignment due dates and examinations.
17. A policy regarding extra credit, including a statement indicating it is
available to all students.
18. A statement of expected behavioral standards that clarifies behavior
expectations, as well as the consequences of disrespectful or
disruptive behavior.
The instructor will submit either a printed or electronic copy, as per
department policy of the syllabus each term and for each course section
the course is taught. Any substantive changes to the syllabus should be
communicated in a timely manner to students and department chairs.
*From AA 2015-03 Syllabus Content Policy
Course Numbering System
The course numbering system for the University is based upon three-digit
numbers as follows:
Course Number Description
001-099 Sub-collegiate courses, not for
baccalaureate credit.
100-199 Lower division courses normally
taken in the freshman year.
200-299 Lower division courses normally
taken in the sophomore year.
300-399 Upper division courses normally
taken in the junior year.
400-499 Upper division courses normally
taken in the senior year.
500-599 Graduate courses ordinarily
limited to graduate students,
Post baccalaureate students, and
last semester seniors with prior
departmental approval.
600 Graduate Continuation Course.
For graduate students who have
completed all course requirements.
Nondiscrimination Policy and Complaint
Procedures
Protected Status: Genetic Information, Marital Status,
Medical Condition, Nationality, Race or Ethnicity
(including color, caste or ancestry), Religion or Religious
Creed, and Veteran or Military Status.
California State University does not discriminate on the basis of age,
genetic information, marital status, medical condition, nationality, race
or ethnicity (including color, caste and ancestry), religion (or religious
creed), and veteran or military status - as these terms are defined
in the CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual
Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation
(Nondiscrimination Policy (https://www.calstate.edu/titleix/Pages/
policies.aspx)) in its programs and activities, including admission and
access. Federal and state laws, including Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964 and the California Equity in Higher Education Act, prohibit such
discrimination. The Assistant Vice President of Human Resources has
been designated to coordinate the efforts of CSUDH to comply with all
applicable federal and state laws prohibiting discrimination on these
bases. Inquiries concerning compliance may be presented to this person
at 1000 E. Victoria St. Welch Hall, Room 340 Carson, CA 90747. (310)
243-3771. CSU Procedures for Complaints of Discrimination, Harassment,
Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic
Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made
Against a Student (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/
latest/#autoid-56krv), (or any successor policy) is the systemwide
procedure for all complaints or discrimination, harassment or retaliation
made against other CSU students. CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence,
Domestic Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy)
Made Against an Employee or Third-Party Procedures for Complaints
of Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation,
Dating Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation Made Against an Employee
or Third-Party (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/
latest/#autoid-j378k) (or any successor procedure) is the system wide
procedure for all complaints of discrimination, harassment or retaliation
made against the CSU, a CSU employee or a third party).
The California State University does not discriminate on the basis of
disability (physical and mental) - as this term is defined in the CSU
Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct,
Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking, and
Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) (https://www.calstate.edu/
titleix/Pages/policies.aspx) - in its programs and activities, including
admission and access. Federal and state laws, including sections
504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, prohibit such discrimination. The Assistant
Vice President of Human Resources has been designated to coordinate
the efforts of CSUDH to comply with all applicable federal and state
laws prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability. Inquiries
concerning compliance may be presented to this person at 1000 E.
Victoria St. Welch Hall, Room 340 Carson, CA 90747. (310) 243-3771.
CSU (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/8453516/latest/) Policy
Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Sexual
Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking, and
Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made against a Student (https://
calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/latest/#autoid-56krv)
(or any successor procedure) is the systemwide procedure for all
complaints of discrimination, harassment or retaliation made against,
other CSU students. CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment,
Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic
Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made
Against an Employee or Third-Party (https://calstate.policystat.com/
policy/12891658/latest/#autoid-j378k) (or any successor procedure)
is the systemwide procedure for all complaints of discrimination,
harassment or retaliation made against the CSU, a CSU employee or a
third party).
Protected Status: Disability
The California State University does not discriminate on the basis of
disability (physical and mental) – as this term is defined in the CSU
Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct,
Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking,
and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) – in its programs and
activities, including admission and access. Federal and state laws,
including sections 504 and 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and the
Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, prohibit such discrimination.
Dr. Ben Toubak has been designated to coordinate the efforts of CSU
2024-25 University Catalog 147
Dominguez Hills to comply with all applicable federal and state laws
prohibiting discrimination on the basis of disability. Inquiries concerning
compliance may be presented to this person at 1000 East Victoria
Street, Welch Hall D-180, Carson, CA 90747 and at (310) 243-3660). CSU
Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct,
Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking,
and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made Against a Student
(https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/latest/#autoid-56krv)
(or any successor procedure) is the systemwide procedure for all
complaints of discrimination, harassment or retaliation made against,
other CSU students. CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment,
Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic
Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made
Against an Employee or Third-Party (o (https://calstate.policystat.com/
policy/12891658/latest/#autoid-j378k)r any successor procedure) is the
systemwide procedure for all complaints of discrimination, harassment or
retaliation made against the CSU, a CSU employee or a third party)
Protected Status: Gender (or sex), Gender Identity
(including nonbinary and transgender), Gender
Expression and Sexual Orientation
California State University does not discriminate on the basis of
gender (or sex), gender identity (including nonbinary and transgender),
gender expression or sexual orientation - as these terms are defined
in CSU policy - in its programs and activities, including admission and
access. Federal and state laws, including Title IX of the Education
Amendments of 1972, prohibit such discrimination. Nallely Lopez,
University Title IX Coordinator, has been designated to coordinate
the efforts of CSUDH to comply with all applicable federal and state
laws prohibiting discrimination on these bases. Inquiries concerning
compliance may be presented to this person at 1000 E. Victoria St.
Welch Hall, B-470 Carson, CA 90747. (310) 243-3619. The California
State University is committed to providing equal opportunities to all CSU
students in all university programs, including intercollegiate athletics.
CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct,
Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking, and
Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made Against a Student (https://
calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/latest/#autoid-56krv) (or
any successor) is the systemwide procedure for all complaints of
discrimination, harassment or retaliation against other CSU students.
CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment, Sexual Misconduct,
Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic Violence, Stalking, and
Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made Against an Employee or
Third-Party (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/latest/
#autoid-j378k) (or any successor procedure) is the systemwide procedure
for all complaints of discrimination, harassment or retaliation made
against the CSU, a CSU employee or a third party).
As a matter of federal and state law and California State University policy,
the following types of conduct are prohibited:
Sex Discrimination or Gender Discrimination means an adverse action
taken against a complainant because of their protected status (sex or
gender).  
Adverse Action means an action engaged in by the respondent that has
a substantial and material adverse effect on the complainant's ability
to participate in a university program, activity, or employment. Minor or
trivial actions or conduct not reasonably likely to do more than anger or
upset a complainant does not constitute an adverse action.
Sexual Harassment means unwelcome verbal, nonverbal or physical
conduct of a sexual nature that includes, but is not limited to, sexual
advances, requests for sexual favors, offering employment benefits or
giving preferential treatment in exchange for sexual favors, or indecent
exposure, and any other conduct of a sexual nature where:
1. Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct is explicitly or implicitly
used as the basis for any decision affecting a Complainant's
academic status or progress, or access to benefits and services,
honors, programs, or activities available at or through the university;
or
2. Submission to, or rejection of, the conduct by the Complainant is
explicitly or implicitly used as the basis for any decision affecting
a term or condition of the Complainant's employment, or an
employment decision; or
3. The conduct is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that its
effect, whether or not intended, could be considered by a reasonable
person in the shoes of the Complainant, and is in fact considered by
the Complainant, as limiting their ability to participate in or benefit
from the services, activities or opportunities offered by the university;
or
4. The conduct is sufficiently severe, persistent, or pervasive that its
effect, whether or not intended, could be considered by a reasonable
person in the shoes of the Complainant, and is in fact considered
by the Complainant, as creating an intimidating, hostile or offensive
environment.
Sexual Harassment could include being forced to engage in unwanted
sexual contact as a condition of membership in a student organization
or in exchange for a raise or promotion; being subjected to video
exploitation or a campaign of sexually explicit graffiti; or frequently being
exposed to unwanted images of a sexual nature in a work environment, or
in a classroom where the images are unrelated too the coursework.
Claiming that the conduct was not motivated by sexual desire is not a
defense to a complaint of Sexual Harassment.
Sexual and/or romantic relationships between members of the university
community may begin as consensual, and may develop into situations
that lead to Discrimination, Harassment, Retaliation, Sexual Misconduct,
Dating or Domestic Violence, or Stalking subject to this policy.
Sexual Misconduct
All sexual activity between members of the CSU community may be
based on Affirmative Consent. Engaging in any sexual activity without
first obtaining Affirmative Consent to the specific activity is Sexual
Misconduct, whether or not the conduct violates any civil or criminal law.
a. Sexual activity includes, but is not limited to:
• kissing
• touching intimate body parts
• fondling
• intercourse
• penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or anus
with any part or object
• oral copulation of a sex organ by another person
b. Sexual Misconduct includes, but is not limited to, the following
conduct:
148 University Regulations
• an attempt, coupled with the ability, to commit a violent
injury on the person of another because of that person's
Gender or Sex,
• the intentional touching of another person's intimate body
parts without Affirmative Consent,
• intentionally causing a person to touch the intimate body
parts of another without Affirmative Consent,
• any unwelcome physical sexual acts, such as unwelcome
sexual touching,
• using physical force, violence, threat, or intimidation to
engage in sexual activity,
• ignoring the objections of the other person to engage in
sexual activity,
• causing the other person's incapacitation through the use
of drugs or alcohol to engage in sexual activity,
• taking advantage of the other person's incapacitation to
engage in sexual activity.
c. Intimate body part means the sexual organ, anus, groin, buttocks,
or breasts of any person.
d. Sexual activity between a Minor (a person younger than 18
years old) and a person who is at least 18 and two years older
than the Minor always constitutes Sexual Misconduct, even if
there is Affirmative Consent to all sexual activity. The existence
of Affirmative Consent and/or the type of sexual activity may be
relevant to the determination of an appropriate Sanction.
e. Persons of all Genders, Gender Identities, Gender Expressions,
and Sexual Orientations can be victims of these forms of Sexual
Misconduct. Sexual Misconduct can be committed by an individual
known to the victim including a person the Complainant just met,
i.e., at a party, introduced through a friend, or on a social networking
website.
Affirmative Consent
Affirmative Consent must be voluntary, and given without coercion, force,
threats, or intimidation.
It is the responsibility of each person involved in the sexual activity
to ensure Affirmative Consent has been obtained from the other
participant(s) prior to engaging in the sexual activity.
Affirmative Consent means an agreement to engage in sexual activity
that is:
• Informed
• Affirmative
• Conscious
• Voluntary and
• Mutual
• Lack of protest or resistance does not mean there is Affirmative
Consent.
• Silence does not mean there is Affirmative Consent.
• The existence of a dating or social relationship between those
involved, or the fact of past sexual activities between them, should
never by itself be assumed to be an indicator of Affirmative Consent.
• A request for someone to use a condom or birth control does not, in
and of itself, mean there is Affirmative Consent.
• Affirmative Consent can be withdrawn or revoked. Consent must be
ongoing throughout a sexual activity and can be revoked at any time,
including after sexual activity begins. Once consent is withdrawn
or revoked, the sexual activity must stop immediately. Consent to
one form of sexual activity (or one sexual act) does not constitute
consent to other forms of sexual activity. Consent given to sexual
activity on one occasion does not constitute consent on another
occasion.
Incapacitation
Affirmative Consent cannot be given by a person who is incapacitated. A
person is unable to consent when asleep, unconscious, or incapacitated
due to the influence of drugs, alcohol, or medication so that the person
could not understand the fact, nature or extent of the sexual activity. A
person is incapacitated if the person lacks the physical and/or mental
ability to make informed, rational decisions. A person with a medical or
mental disability may also lack the capacity to give consent.
Whether an intoxicated person (as a result of using alcohol or other
drugs) is incapacitated depends on the extent to which the alcohol or
other drugs impact the person's decision-making ability, awareness of
consequences, and ability to make informed judgments. A person's own
intoxication or incapacitation from drugs or alcohol does not diminish
that person's responsibility to obtain Affirmative Consent before engaging
in sexual activity.
Sexual activity with a minor (a person under 18 years old) is not
consensual, because a minor is considered incapable of giving consent
due to age.
It shall not be a valid excuse that a person affirmatively consented to the
sexual activity if the Respondent knew or reasonably should have known
that the person was unable to consent to the sexual activity under any of
the following circumstances:
• The person was asleep or unconscious;
• The person was incapacitated due to the influence of drugs,
alcohol, or medication, so that the person could not understand
the fact, nature, or extent of the sexual activity; or
• The person could not understand the fact, nature, or extent of
the sexual activity, or was unable to communicate, due to a
mental or physical condition.
It shall not be a valid excuse that the Respondent believed that the
person consented to the sexual activity under either of the following
circumstances:
• The Respondent's belief in Affirmative Consent arose from the
intoxication or recklessness of the Respondent; or
• The Respondent did not take reasonable steps, in the
circumstances known to the Respondent at the time, to
ascertain whether the person affirmatively consented.
Dating Violence and Domestic Violence
Dating Violence means physical violence or threat of physical violence
committed by a person:
a. Who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or
intimate nature with the Complainant;
and
2024-25 University Catalog 149
b. Where the existence of such a relationship shall be determined
based on a consideration of the following factors:
i. The length of the relationship
ii. The type of relationship
iii. The frequency of interaction between the persons involved
in the relationship
Domestic Violence means physical violence or threat of physical violence
committed by a current or former spouse or intimate partner of the
Complainant, by a person with whom the Complainant shares a child in
common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has cohabitated with
the Complainant as a spouse or intimate partner, or by a person similarly
situated to a spouse of the Complainant.
Physical violence means physical conduct that intentionally or recklessly
threatens the health and safety of the recipient of the behavior, including
assault.
Stalking
Stalking means engaging in a Course of Conduct directed at a specific
person that would cause a reasonable person to fear for the safety of self
or others' safety or to suffer Substantial Emotional Distress. For purposes
of this definition:
• Course of Conduct means two or more acts, including but not limited
to, acts in which one party directly, indirectly, or through third parties,
by any action, method, device, or means, follows, monitors, observes,
surveils, threatens, or communicates to or about the other party, or
interferes with the other party's property.
• Substantial Emotional Distress means significant mental suffering or
anguish that may but does not necessarily require medical or other
professional treatment or counseling.
Prohibited Consensual Relationships
A Prohibited Consensual Relationship is a consensual sexual or romantic
relationship between an Employee and any Student or Employee
over whom they exercise direct or otherwise significant academic,
administrative, supervisory, evaluative, counseling, or extracurricular
authority.
Retaliation
Retaliation means that a substantial motivating reason for an Adverse
Action taken against a person was because the person has or is believed
to have:
a. Exercised their rights under this policy
b. Reported or opposed conduct which was reasonably and in good
faith believed to be in violation of this policy,
c. Assisted or participated in an investigation/proceeding under this
policy, regardless of whether the Complaint was substantiated,
d. Assisted someone in reporting or opposing a violation of this
policy or assisted someone in reporting or opposing Retaliation
under this policy.
Adverse Action means an action engaged in by the Respondent that has
a substantial and material adverse effect on the Complainant's ability
to participate in a university program, activity, or employment. Minor or
trivial actions or conduct not reasonably likely to do more than anger or
upset a Complainant does not constitute an Adverse Action.
Retaliation may occur whether or not there is a power of authority
differential between the individuals involved.
Additional Prohibited Conduct Definitions
1. Sexual Harassment means conduct on the basis of Sex that satisfies
one or more of the following:
a. An Employee conditioning the provision of an aid, benefit, or
service of the University on an individual's participation in
unwelcome sexual conduct;
b. Unwelcome conduct determined based on the reasonable person
standard to be so severe, pervasive, and objectively offensive
that it effectively denies a person equal access to an Education
Program or Activity.
2. Sexual Assault includes the following:
a. Rape is the penetration, or attempted penetration, no matter
how slight, of the vagina or anus with any body part or object, or
oral penetration by a sex organ of another person, without the
Affirmative Consent of the Complainant. Rape also includes the
attempted penetration, no matter how slight, of the vagina or
anus with any body part or object, or oral penetration by a sex
organ of another person, without the Affirmative Consent of the
Complainant, with the present ability and the intent to commit
Rape.
b. Fondling is the touching of the private body parts of another
person for the purpose of sexual gratification, without the
Affirmative Consent of the victim, including instances where the
Complainant is incapable of giving Affirmative Consent because
of their age or because of their temporary or permanent mental
incapacity.
c. Incest is sexual intercourse between persons who are related to
each other within the degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by
law.
d. Statutory Rape is sexual intercourse with a person who is under
the age of 18 years, the California statutory age of consent. The
definition of Affirmative Consent is that under Article VII.A.3
above.
e. Dating Violence means physical violence or threat of physical
violence committed by a person:
i. who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or
intimate nature with the Complainant; and
ii. where the existence of such a relationship shall be
determined based on a consideration of the following factors:
1. The length of the relationship.
2. The type of relationship.
3. The frequency of interaction between the persons
involved in the relationship.
3. Domestic Violence means physical violence or threat of physical
violence committed by a current or former spouse or intimate partner
of the Complainant, by a person with whom the Complainant shares
a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has
cohabitated with the Complainant as a spouse or intimate partner, or
by a person similarly situated to a spouse of the Complainant.
4. Stalking means engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific
person that would cause a reasonable person to:
a. fear for their safety or the safety of others; or
b. suffer substantial emotional distress.
150 University Regulations
See further information in CSUDH sexual violence prevention and
education statement, Title IX Notice of Nondiscrimination (which
includes facts and myths about sexual violence), and Victim's Rights
and Options Notice (https://www.google.com/url/?client=internalelement-cse&cx=014923810474251600839:2ikns0f3yye&q=https://
www.csudh.edu/Assets/csudh-sites/gei/docs/csudh-rightsoptions-2018.pdf&sa=U&ved=2ahUKEwiZvfrkqZH_AhWnLUQIHelkDO4QFnoECAYQAg&usg=AOvVaw08K2CZQ1yUmybF8yQ924wK),
at https://www.csudh.edu/equity/rights-resources/
Inquiries Concerning Compliance
Inquiries concerning compliance or the application of these laws to
programs and activities of CSUDH may be referred to the specific campus
officer(s) identified above or to the Regional Director of the Office for Civil
Rights, United States Department of Education, 50 Beale Street, Suite
7200, San Francisco, California 94105.
Whom to Contact If You Have Complaints, Questions or
Concerns
Title IX requires the university to designate a Title IX Coordinator to
monitor and oversee overall Title IX compliance. The university Title IX
Coordinator is available to explain and discuss the university’s complaint
process, including the investigation and hearing process; the availability
of reasonable supportive measures (both on and off campus regardless
of whether the person chooses to report the conduct); the right to file a
criminal complaint (for example, in cases of sexual misconduct); how
confidentiality is handled; and other related matters. If you are in the
midst of an emergency, please call the police immediately by dialing 9-1-1.
University Title IX Coordinator:
Blair J. Miles (he/him)
1000 E. Victoria St. Welch Hall, B-470H Carson, CA 90747
(310) 243-3492
Office hours: Monday through Friday, 8:00 am to 5:00 pm
bmiles@csudh.edu
University Police
Carols Velez, Chief of Police
1000 E. Victoria St. Welch Hall, Room B-100 Carson, CA 90747.
(310) 243- 3639
U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights (OCR)
(800) 421-3481 or ocr@ed.gov
If you wish to fill out a complaint form online with the OCR, you may do so
using the OCR Electronic Complaint Form. (https://www2.ed.gov/about/
offices/list/ocr/complaintintro.html)
Title IX requires the university to adopt and publish complaint procedures
that provide for prompt and equitable resolution of gender discrimination
complaints, including sexual harassment misconduct, as well as
provide training, education and preventative measures related to sex
discrimination. CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination, Harassment,
Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence, Domestic
Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy) Made
Against a Student (https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/12891658/
latest/#autoid-56krv) (or any successor) is the systemwide procedure for
all complaints of discrimination, harassment or retaliation made against
the CSU, a CSU employee, or a third party.
Duty to Report. Except as provided below under confidentiality and
sexual misconduct, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking, any
university employee who knows or has reason to know of allegations
or acts that violate university policy shall promptly inform the Title IX
Coordinator. These employees are required to disclose all information
including the names of the parties, even where the person has requested
that their name remain confidential. The Title IX Coordinator will
determine whether confidentiality is appropriate given the circumstances
of each such incident. (See confidential reporting options outlined below.)
Regardless of whether an alleged victim of gender discrimination
ultimately files a complaint, if the university knows or has reason to
know about possible sexual discrimination, harassment or misconduct,
it must review the matter to determine if an investigation is warranted.
The university must then take appropriate steps to eliminate any gender
discrimination/harassment/misconduct, prevent its recurrence, and
remedy its effects.
U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights
(OCR):
(800) 421-3481 (National Headquarters), or (415) 486-5555 (California
office), or (800) 877-8339 (TDD) or ocr@ed.gov (National Headquarters) or
ocr.sanfrancisco@ed.gov (California office)
If you wish to fill out a complaint form online with the OCR, you may do so
using the OCR Electronic Form.
Safety of the Campus Community is Primary
The university’s primary concern is the safety of its university community
members. The use of alcohol or drugs never makes the victim at fault
for gender discrimination, harassment or misconduct; therefore, victims
should not be deterred from reporting incidents of sexual misconduct out
of a concern that they might be disciplined for related violations of drug,
alcohol or other university policies. Except in extreme circumstances,
victims of sexual misconduct shall not be subject to discipline for related
violations of the Student Conduct Code.
Information Regarding University, Criminal and Civil
Consequences of Committing Acts of Sexual Violence
Individuals alleged to have committed sexual misconduct may face
criminal prosecution by law enforcement and may incur penalties as a
result of civil litigation. In addition, employees and students may face
discipline at the university, up to including suspension or expulsion.
Employees may face sanctions up to and including dismissal from
employment, pursuant to established CSU policies and provisions of
applicable collective bargaining unit agreements.
Students who are found responsible by the university with gender
discrimination, harassment or sexual misconduct will be subject
to discipline, pursuant to CSU Policy Prohibiting Discrimination,
Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Sexual Exploitation, Dating Violence,
Domestic Violence, Stalking, and Retaliation (Nondiscrimination Policy)
Made Against a Student and the California State University and Student
Conduct Procedures (see the Student Conduct Procedures Policy
(https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/14075291/latest/), revised
on August 14, 2020, or any successor policy) and will be subject to
appropriate sanctions. In addition, during any investigation, the university
may implement interim measures in order to maintain a safe and nondiscriminatory educational environment. Such measures may include but
not be limited to: immediate interim suspension from the University; a
required move from university-owned or affiliated housing; adjustments
to course schedule; and/or prohibition from contact with parties involved
in the alleged incident.
2024-25 University Catalog 151
Confidentiality and Sexual Misconduct, Dating Violence,
Domestic Violence and Stalking
The university encourages victims of sexual misconduct, dating violence,
domestic violence or stalking to talk to someone about what happened –
so they can get the support they need, and so the university can respond
appropriately.
Privileged and Confidential
Communications
Physicians, Psychotherapists, Professional Licensed Counselors,
Licensed Clinical Social Workers, and Clergy – Physicians,
psychotherapists, professional, licensed counselors, licensed clinical
social workers, and clergy who work or volunteer on or off campus, acting
solely in those roles or capacities as part of their employment, and who
provide medical or mental health treatment or counseling (and those
who act under their supervision, including all individuals who work or
volunteer in their centers and offices) may not report any information
about an incident of sexual misconduct to anyone else at the university,
including the Title IX Coordinator, without the victim's consent. A victim
can seek assistance and support from physicians, psychotherapists,
professional, licensed counselors, licensed clinical social workers and
clergy without triggering a university investigation that could reveal the
victim's identity or the fact of the victim's disclosure. However, see limited
exceptions below regarding when health care practitioners must report to
local law enforcement agencies. Health care practitioners should explain
these limited exceptions to victims, if applicable.
Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence Counselors and Advocates –
Sexual assault and domestic violence counselors and advocates who
work or volunteer on or off campus in sexual assault centers, victim
advocacy offices, women's centers and health centers (including those
who act in that role under their supervision, along with non-professional
counselors or advocates who work or volunteer in sexual assault centers,
victim advocacy offices, women's centers, gender equity centers, or
health centers), may talk to a victim without revealing any information
about the victim and the incident of sexual misconduct to anyone
else at the university, including the Title IX Coordinator, without the
victim's consent. A victim can seek assistance and support from these
counselors and advocates without triggering a university investigation
that could reveal his/her identity or that a victim disclosed an incident
to them. However, see limited exceptions below regarding when sexual
assault and domestic violence counselors and advocates must report
to local law enforcement agencies. Counselors and advocates should
explain these limited exceptions to victims, if applicable.
The university will be unable to conduct an investigation into a particular
incident or pursue disciplinary action against a perpetrator if a victim
chooses to:
1. Speak only to a physician, professional licensed counselor, licensed
clinical social worker, clergy member, sexual assault counselor,
domestic violence counselor or advocate; and
2. Maintain complete confidentiality. Even so, these individuals will
assist victims in receiving other necessary protection and support,
such as victim advocacy, disability services, medical/health or
mental health services, or legal services, and will advise victims
regarding their right to file a Title IX complaint with the university and
a separate complaint with local or university police.
If a victim insists on confidentiality, such professionals, counselors and
advocates will likely not be able to assist the victim with: university
academic support or accommodations; changes to university-based
living or working schedules; or adjustments to course schedules. A
victim who at first requests confidentiality may later decide to file a
complaint with the university or report the incident to the police, and thus
have the incident fully investigated. These counselors and advocates
can provide victims with that assistance if requested by the victim.
These counselors and advocates will also explain that Title IX includes
protections against retaliation, and that the university will not only take
steps to prevent retaliation when it knows or reasonably should know
of possible retaliation, but will also take strong responsive action if
retaliation occurs.
Exceptions: Under California law, any health practitioner employed
in a health facility, clinic, physician's office, or local or state public
health department or clinic is required to make a report to local law
enforcement if the health practitioner provides medical services for a
physical condition to a patient/victim who the health practitioner knows
or reasonably suspects is suffering from:
1. A wound or physical injury inflicted by a firearm; or
2. Any wound or other physical injury inflicted upon a victim where the
injury is the result of assaultive or abusive conduct (including sexual
misconduct, domestic violence, and dating violence).
This exception does not apply to sexual assault and domestic violence
counselors and advocates. Health care practitioners should explain this
limited exception to victims, if applicable.
Additionally, under California law, all professionals described above
(physicians, psychotherapists, professional counselors, licensed
clinical social workers, clergy, and sexual assault and domestic violence
counselors and advocates) are mandatory child abuse and neglect
reporters, and are required to report incidents involving victims under 18
years of age to local law enforcement. These professionals will explain
this limited exception to victims, if applicable.
Finally, some or all of these professionals may also have reporting
obligations under California law to:
1. Local law enforcement in cases involving threats of immediate or
imminent harm to self or others where disclosure of the information
is necessary to prevent the threatened danger; or
2. To the court if compelled by court order or subpoena in a criminal
proceeding related to the sexual misconduct, dating or domestic
violence, or stalking incident. If applicable, these professions will
explain this limited exception to victims.
Reporting to University or Local Police
If a victim reports to local or university police about sexual misconduct
crimes, the police are required to notify victims that their names will
become a matter of public record unless confidentiality is requested.
If a victim requests that their identity be kept confidential, their name
will not become a matter of public record and the police will not report
the victim's identity to anyone else at the university, including the Title
IX Coordinator. University police will, however, report the facts of the
incident itself to the Title IX Coordinator being sure not to reveal to the
Title IX Coordinator victim names/identities or compromise their own
criminal investigation. The university is required by the federal Clery
Act to report certain types of crimes (including certain sex offenses)
in statistical reports. However, while the university will report the type
of incident in the annual crime statistics report known as the Annual
Security Report, victim names/identities will not be revealed.
152 University Regulations
Reporting to the Title IX Coordinator and Other
University Employees
Most university employees have a duty to report incidents of sexual
misconduct when they are on notice of it. When a victim tells the Title IX
Coordinator or another university employee about an incident of sexual
misconduct, the victim has the right to expect the university to take
immediate and appropriate steps to investigate what happened and to
resolve the matter promptly and equitably. In all cases, the university
strongly encourages victims to report incidents of sexual misconduct
directly to the university Title IX Coordinator. As detailed above, in the
"Privileged and Confidential Communications" section of this policy,
all university employees except physicians, licensed professional
counselors, licensed clinical social workers, sexual assault counselors
and advocates, must report to the Title IX Coordinator all relevant details
about any incidents of sexual misconduct of which they become aware.
The university will need to determine what happened – and will need to
know the names of the victim(s) and the perpetrator(s), any witnesses,
and any other relevant facts, including the date, time and specific location
of the incident. 
To the extent possible, information reported to the Title IX Coordinator
or other university employees will be shared only with individuals
responsible for handling the university's response to the incident. The
university will protect the privacy of individuals involved in a sexual
misconduct violence incident except as otherwise required by law
or university policy. A report of sexual misconduct may result in the
gathering of extremely sensitive information about individuals in the
university community. While such information is considered confidential,
university policy regarding access to public records and disclosure
of personal information may require disclosure of certain information
concerning a report of sexual misconduct. In such cases, efforts will
be made to redact the records, as appropriate, in order to protect the
victim's identity and privacy and the privacy of other involved individuals.
Except as detailed in the section on "Privileged and Confidential
Communications" above, no university employee, including the Title IX
Coordinator, should disclose the victim's identity to the police without the
victim's consent or unless the victim has also reported the incident to the
police.
If a victim requests of the Title IX Coordinator or another university
employee that their identity remain completely confidential, the Title
IX Coordinator will explain that the university cannot always honor
that request or guarantee complete confidentiality. If a victim wishes
to remain confidential or request that no investigation be conducted
or disciplinary action taken, the university must weigh that request
against the university's obligation to provide a safe, non-discriminatory
environment for all students, employees, and third parties, including the
victim. Under those circumstances, the Title IX Coordinator will determine
whether the victim's request for complete confidentiality and/or no
investigation can be honored under the facts and circumstances of the
particular case, including whether the university has a legal obligation
to report the incident, conduct an investigation or take other appropriate
steps. Without information about a victim's identity, the university's ability
to meaningfully investigate the incident and pursue disciplinary action
against the perpetrator may be severely limited. See the Systemwide
Sex Discrimination, Sexual Harassment, Sexual Misconduct, Dating and
Domestic Violence, and Stalking Policy (or any successor policy) for
further details around confidential reporting, and other related matters.
Additional Resources
CSUDH’s sexual violence prevention and education statement,
which includes facts and myths about sexual violence, at http://
www.csudh.edu/dhpd/clery/index (http://www.csudh.edu/dhpd/clery/
index/).
U.S. Department of Education, regional office:
Office for Civil Rights
50 United Nations Plaza
San Francisco, CA 94102
(415) 486-5555
TDD (877) 521-2172
OCRSanFrancisco@ed.gov
U.S. Department of Education, national headquarters:
Office for Civil Rights
(800) 421-3481
TDD (800) 877-8339
OCR@ed.gov (ocr@ed.gov)
California Coalition Against Sexual Assault:
1215 K. Street, Suite 1850
Sacramento, CA 95814
(916) 446-2520
California Coalition Against Sexual Assault website (http://
www.valor.us/)
1. Domestic and Family Violence, Office of Justice Programs, U.S.
Department of Justice : Intimate Partner Violence (https://
ovc.ojp.gov/topics/intimate-partner-violence/?topicid=27)
2. National Institute of Justice: Intimate Partner Violence, Office of
Justice Programs, United States Department of Justice (https://
ovc.ncjrs.gov/topic.aspx?topicid=27)
3. National Domestic Violence Hotline Website (https://
www.thehotline.org/) and phone number 1-800-799-SAFE (7233)
4. Office of Violence against Women, United States Department of
Justice (http://www.justice.gov/ovw/)
5. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: Intimate
Partner Violence (http://www.cdc.gov/ViolencePrevention/
intimatepartnerviolence/)
6. Compton Center YMCA – Sexual Assault & Crisis Center: (310)
763-9117
7. South Bay Rape Hotline: (310) 545-2111
Academic Petition for Exception
Students may petition for exception to certain university academic
regulations when unusual circumstances exist. It should be noted,
however, that academic regulations contained in Title 5, California Code
of Regulations, cannot be waived by petition.
Before filing a petition, students must first speak with the designated
representatives in the School or College associated with their request.
Only in cases where no alternate means of resolution is available should
a student then file a petition. To do so, a fee must be paid. Requests
must be stated clearly and accompanied by supporting documentation.
Students are notified of decisions by U.S. Mail at the address on file with
the university.
Plagiarism
At the heart of any university are its efforts to encourage critical reading
skills, effective communication and, above all, intellectual honesty among
its students. Thus, all academic work submitted by a student as his or
her own should be in his or her own unique style, words and form. When
2024-25 University Catalog 153
a student submits work that purports to be his/her original work, but
actually is not, the student has committed plagiarism.
Plagiarism is considered a gross violation of the University's academic
and disciplinary standards. Plagiarism includes the following: copying
of one person's work by another and claiming it as his or her own, false
presentation of one's self as the author or creator of a work, falsely taking
credit for another person's unique method of treatment or expression,
falsely representing one's self as the source of ideas or expression, or the
presentation of someone else's language, ideas or works without giving
that person due credit. It is not limited to written works. For example,
one could plagiarize music compositions, photographs, works of art,
choreography, computer programs or any other unique creative effort.
Plagiarism is cause for formal university discipline and is justification
for an instructor to assign a lower grade or a failing grade in the course
in which the plagiarism is committed. In addition, the University may
impose its own disciplinary measures.
Prerequisites for Courses
Course prerequisites cited with each course description in this catalog
are intended to advise the student of any previous work needed for
the course. Some course prerequisites will be automatically enforced
electronically as part of the registration process. Students not meeting
the stated prerequisites should determine their eligibility for such
courses in consultation with their academic advisors and the appropriate
instructor.
Privacy Rights of Students in Education
Records
The federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (20
U.S.C. 1232g) and regulations adopted thereunder (34 C.F.R. 99) set
out requirements designed to protect students’ privacy in their records
maintained by the university. The statute and regulations govern access
to certain student records maintained by the university and the release
of such records. FERPA provides that the university must give a student
access to most records directly related to the student, and must also
provide an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the records if the
student believes the records are inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise
inappropriate. The right to petition to correct a record under FERPA
does not include any right to challenge the appropriateness of a grade
determined by the instructor. In addition, FERPA generally requires the
university obtain a student’s written consent before releasing personally
identifiable data about the student. The university has adopted a set of
policies and procedures governing the implementation of FERPA and its
regulations. Copies of these policies and procedures may be obtained at
the Office of Admissions and Records. Among the information included in
the university statement of policies and procedures is:
1. The student records maintained and the information they contain;
2. The university official responsible for maintaining each record;
3. The location of access lists indentifying persons requesting or
receiving information from the record;
4. Policies for reviewing and expunging records;
5. Student access rights to their records;
6. Procedure for challenging the content of student records; and
7. The student's right to file a complaint with the Department of
Education, which enforces FERPA. The Department of Education has
established an office and review board to investigate complaints
and adjudicate potential FERPA violations. The designated office
is: Student Privacy Policy Office, U.S. Department of Education, 400
Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20202-5920.
FERPA authorizes that the university may release “directory information”
pertaining to students. “Directory information” may include the student’s
name, address, telephone listing, electronic mail address, photograph,
date and place of birth, major field of study, participation in officially
recognized activities and sports, weight and height of members of
athletic teams, dates of attendance, grade level, enrollment status,
degrees, honors, and awards received, and the most recent previous
educational agency or institution attended by the student. The abovedesignated information is subject to release by the university at any time
unless the university has received prior written objection from the student
specifying the information the student requests not be released. Written
objections should be sent to to the Director of Admissions and Records.
FERPA authorizes the university to provide access to student records,
without prior student consent to university officials, employees and
others who have legitimate educational interests in such access. These
persons include those with legitimate reasons to access student records
to perform the university's academic, administrative or service functions,
and those with a reason for accessing student records associated
with their university or other related academic responsibilities. Student
records will also be disclosed to the CSU Chancellor’s Office to conduct
research, to analyze trends, or to provide other administrative services.
Student records may also be disclosed without prior student consent
to other persons or organizations under certain conditions (e.g., as part
of the accreditation or program evaluation, in response to a court order
or subpoena in connection with financial aid, or to other institutions to
which the student is transferring).
Release of Student Information to Agencies of the State
of California
Agencies of the State of California may request, without prior student
consent to university officials, employees and others for recruitment
purposes, information including the names, addresses, major fields of
study, and total units completed of CSU students and former students.
The university is required by law to release such information to state
agencies on request concerning students who have requested in writing
that such information be released to state agencies. Students will have
the opportunity during the first three weeks of the Fall semester to
request in writing the release of such information by completing a form
in the Registrar's Office; this release is effective for one academic year
and expires on the first day of the following academic year. Students will
also have an opportunity to forbid release of any personal identifiable
information to state agencies or any other person or organization.
Smoking Policy
California State University, Dominguez Hills (CSUDH) has a responsibility
to its students and employees to provide a safe and healthful learning
and working environment. The University recognizes the harmful effects
of involuntary contact with smoke. It also recognizes the need to
preserve the reasonable individual rights of smokers as long as doing
so does not interfere with the right of the non-smoker to a smoke-free
environment.
Authority and Purpose
This executive order is issued pursuant to Title 5, California Code of
Regulations, Sections 42356, Government Code 7597.1, and the Standing
Orders of the Board of Trustees.
154 University Regulations
A cornerstone of the California State University and higher education
is the principle of one’s individual freedom to learn, teach, work, think,
and take part in their intellectual and career endeavors in a fulfilling,
rewarding, safe, and healthy environment.
For decades, the health hazards of tobacco and second-hand smoke to
individuals have been well studied and chronicled. Further, studies have
clearly demonstrated the acute health benefits, medical costs savings,
and organizational costs savings when individuals quit smoking.
Thus, in order to provide the California State University’s faculty, staff,
students, guests and the public with campuses that support the principle
of one’s individual freedom to learn, teach, work, think and take part in
their intellectual endeavors in a fulfilling, rewarding, safe and healthy
environment, the creation and implementation of a “smoke and tobacco
free” policy system-wide is necessary and welcome.
Campus Presidents or their designees shall have the responsibility for
implementing the policy on their campuses with an implementation date
of September 1, 2017.
Definitions
Members of the CSU Community: This includes all students, faculty, staff,
alumni, university volunteers, contractors or vendors and visitors to any
California State University campus or properties.
University Properties: These include the interior and exterior campus
areas of any California State University campus. This definition includes
buildings (including residence halls), structures (including parking
structures), parking lots, and outdoor areas owned, leased or rented
by the university or one of its auxiliaries. Also included are vehicles
owned, leased or rented by the university or one of the university’s
auxiliaries. Private vehicles on university-owned, leased, or rented land
or in university-owned, leased, or rented parking structures will also be
subject to compliance with Executive Order 1108.
Smoke Free: “Smoke Free” means the use of cigarettes, pipes, cigars, and
other “smoke” emanating products including e-cigarettes, vapor devices
and other like products are prohibited on all University properties.
Smoke or Smoking: “Smoke” or “Smoking” means inhaling, exhaling,
burning, or carrying any lighted or heated cigar, cigarette, cigarillo, pipe,
hookah, or any other lighted or heated tobacco or plant product intended
for inhalation, whether natural or synthetic, in any manner or in any form.
“Smoke” or “Smoking” also includes the use of an electronic smoking
device that creates an aerosol or vapor, in any manner or in any form, or
the use of any oral smoking device for the purpose of circumventing the
prohibition of smoking.
Tobacco Product: A product containing, made or derived from tobacco
or nicotine that is intended for human consumption, whether smoked,
heated, chewed, absorbed, dissolved, inhaled, snorted, sniffed, or ingested
by any other means, including, but not limited to cigarettes, cigars, little
cigars, chewing tobacco, pipe tobacco, and snuff.
An electronic device that delivers nicotine or other vaporized liquids
to the person inhaling from the device, including, but not limited to, an
electronic cigarette, cigar, pipe, or hookah. (iii) Any component, part,
accessory of a tobacco product, whether or not sold separately. (iv)
“Tobacco product” does not include a product that has been approved
by the United States Food and Drug Administration for sale as a tobacco
cessation product or for other therapeutic purposes where the product is
market and sold solely for such an approved purpose.
Tobacco Free: “Tobacco Free” means the use of cigarettes, pipes, cigars,
smokeless tobacco, snuffs, and other tobacco products are prohibited on
all University properties.
Policy Text
Campus Presidents or their designees shall have the responsibility of
implementing this Executive Order on their campuses with an anticipated
implementation date no later than September 1, 2017.
Scope of this Executive Order
Effective September 1, 2017, all California State University campuses
shall be 100% Smoke Free and Tobacco Free. Smoking, the use or sale
of tobacco products, and the use of designated smoking areas are
prohibited on all California State University properties. Members of the
CSU community are expected to fully comply with the policy.
Any sponsorship and/or advertising in respect to any university activity
or event by a tobacco product manufacturer is prohibited unless explicitly
authorized by the University President or designee.
Exceptions
Smoking in university-sponsored theater and dance productions, studentauthored or sponsored scenes, showcases or workshops produced as
part of the department of theatre as well as ceremonial campus events
may be authorized by the President or designee only when a required part
of a specific performance. This includes smoking and/or tobacco use for
traditional ceremonial activities of recognized cultural and/or religious
groups.
The use of nicotine cessation products regulated by the United
States Food and Drug Administration for treating nicotine or tobacco
dependencies is permitted under the terms of this executive order.
(iii) Institutional Review Board approved research on tobacco or tobaccorelated products.
Compliance, Responsibilities and Enforcement
Compliance is grounded in an informed and educated campus
community. The success of this policy depends on the thoughtfulness,
civility and cooperation of all members of the campus community,
including visitors.
Members of the CSU community are individually responsible to comply
with the creation of a system-wide smoke and tobacco free environment.
While compliance with this executive order is an individual responsibility,
members of the CSU community should be aware that enforcement of
this policy may occur in the following instances:
• University Police shall reserve all enforcement authority with regards
to any violation of existing state and federal law.
• Individual agreements that prohibit smoking and proscribe penalties
for breaches that are not impacted by this executive order (e.g.
University Housing license agreements, other residential licenses, or
existing leases).
• Educational campaigns, outreach, communication and the promotion
of tobacco cessation treatment options will be the primary means
to promote compliance. A comprehensive education and outreach
campaign, including resources and referrals for cessation will be
made available as part of campus implementation programs.
• The progress this policy represents in promoting the ability
of students, faculty, staff and visitors to have a healthier and
pleasant campus experience aligns well with the CSU’s mission.
Individual campus support and diligence in moving forward with
2024-25 University Catalog 155
the implementation and amendment of current policies is sincerely
appreciated.
• Hostile and/or violent interpersonal conduct directed against
members of the CSU community requesting that an individual(s)
comply regarding compliance with the terms of this executive order
will not be tolerated, and will be enforced under system-wide or
campus policies, including but not limited to workplace violence
policies.
Implementation
The Vice Chancellor for Human Resources has overall responsibility
for implementing this policy. This policy shall supersede all existing
campus policies related to smoking and tobacco. Campus task forces
will be responsible for developing an implementation plan, and ensuring
all activities associated with implementation are carried out. Campus
task forces shall include a student representative. A member of each
campus task force will serve on the system-wide Smoke and Tobacco
Free Policy Task Force to ensure all campuses are adequately moving
forward with implementation of this policy. Exclusive Representatives
may nominate an individual to serve on the Systemwide Task Force. To
provide adequate time to create awareness, outreach, and educational
programs, including smoking cessation and counseling programs, this
policy is effective September 1, 2017.
Student Rights and Responsibilities
Student Responsibility
Each student is responsible for compliance with the regulations printed
in the current catalog, in the current schedule of classes and with official
notices posted on official bulletin boards.
Student Discipline
The University seeks to create the optimum climate for academic
excellence for both students and faculty. Within this climate, students
must have the opportunity to develop an understanding of their roles as
citizens in a democracy. In order to achieve these goals, the University
strives to minimize its regulatory controls over individual student conduct
and to maximize the opportunity for student self-control and selfdiscipline. Students who attend the University are expected to conduct
themselves in a manner compatible with the laws of federal, state and
local governments, as well as with the stated purposes of the University.
Inappropriate conduct by students or by applicants for admission is
subject to discipline as provided in Sections 41301 through 41304 of Title
5, California Code of Regulations.
Student Conduct
Title 5, California Code of Regulations, § 41301.
Standards for Student Conduct
a. University Community Values
The university is committed to maintaining a safe and healthy living
and learning environment for students, faculty, and staff. Each
member of the university community should choose behaviors
that contribute toward this end. Students are expected to be good
citizens and to engage in responsible behaviors that reflect well
upon their university, to be civil to one another and to others in the
university community, and contribute positively to student and
university life.
b. Grounds for Student Discipline
Student behavior that is not consistent with the Student Conduct
Code is addressed through an educational process that is designed
to promote safety and good citizenship and, when necessary,
impose appropriate consequences. The following are the grounds
upon which student discipline can be based:
1. Dishonesty, including:
a. Cheating, plagiarism, or other forms of academic dishonesty
that are intended to gain unfair academic advantage.
b. Furnishing false information to a University official, faculty
member, or university office.
c. Forgery, alteration, or misuse of a University document, key,
or identification instrument.
d. Misrepresenting one’s self to be an authorized agent of the
university or one of its auxiliaries.
2. Unauthorized entry into, presence in, use of, or misuse of
university property.
3. Willful, material and substantial disruption or obstruction of a
university-related activity, or any on-campus activity.
4. Participating in an activity that substantially and materially
disrupts the normal operations of the University, or infringes on the
rights of members of the University community.
5. Willful, material and substantial obstruction of the free flow of
pedestrian or other traffic, on or leading to campus property or an
off-campus University related activity.
6. Disorderly, lewd, indecent, or obscene behavior at a University
related activity, or directed toward a member of the university
community.
7. Conduct that threatens or endangers the health or safety of any
person within or related to the university community, including
physical abuse, threats, intimidation, harassment, or sexual
misconduct.
8. Hazing or conspiracy to haze. Hazing is defined as any method
of initiation or pre-initiation into a student organization or student
body, whether or not the organization or body is officially recognized
by an educational institution, which is likely to cause serious
bodily injury to any former, current, or prospective student of any
school, community college, college, university or other educational
institution in this state (Penal Code 245.6), and in addition, any act
likely to cause physical harm, personal degradation or disgrace
resulting in physical or mental harm, to any former, current, or
prospective student of any school, community college, college,
university or other educational institution. The term “hazing” does
not include customary athletic events or school sanctioned events.
Neither the express or implied consent of a victim of hazing, nor
the lack of active participation in a particular hazing incident is a
defense. Apathy or acquiescence in the presence of hazing is not a
neutral act, and is also a   violation of this section.
9. Use, possession, manufacture, or distribution of illegal drugs or
drug- related paraphernalia, (except as expressly permitted by law
and university regulations) or the misuse of legal pharmaceutical
drugs.
156 University Regulations
10. Use, possession, manufacture, or distribution of alcoholic
beverages (except as expressly permitted by law and university
regulations), or public intoxication while on campus or at a
university related activity.
11. Theft of property or services from the university community, or
misappropriation of university resources.
12. Unauthorized destruction or damage to university property or
other property in the university community.
13. Possession or misuse of firearms or guns, replicas, ammunition,
explosives, fireworks, knives, other weapons, or dangerous
chemicals (without the prior authorization of the university
president) on campus or at a university related activity.
14. Unauthorized recording, dissemination, or publication of
academic presentations (including handwritten notes) for a
commercial purpose.
15. Misuse of computer facilities or resources, including:
a. Unauthorized entry into a file, for any purpose.
b. Unauthorized transfer of a file.
c. Use of another’s identification or password.
d. Use of computing facilities, campus network, or other
resources to interfere with the work of another member of the
university community.
e. Use of computing facilities and resources to send obscene
or intimidating and abusive messages.
f. Use of computing facilities and resources to interfere with
normal university operations.
g. Use of computing facilities and resources in violation of
copyright laws.
h. Violation of a university computer use policy.
16. Violation of any published university policy, rule, regulation or
presidential order.
17. Failure to comply with directions or interference with, any
university official or any public safety officer while acting in the
performance of their duties.
18. Any act chargeable as a violation of a federal, state, or local
law that poses a substantial threat to the safety or well-being
of members of the University community, to property within the
University community or poses a significant threat of disruption or
interference with university operations.
19. Violation of the Student Conduct Procedures, including:
a. Falsification, distortion, or misrepresentation of information
related to a student discipline matter.
b. Disruption or interference with the orderly progress of a
student discipline proceeding.
c. Initiation of a student discipline proceeding in bad faith.
d. Attempting to discourage another from participating in the
student discipline matter.
e. Attempting to influence the impartiality of any participant in
a student discipline matter.
f. Verbal or physical harassment or intimidation of any
participant in a student discipline matter.
g. Failure to comply with the sanction(s) imposed under a
student discipline proceeding.
20. Encouraging, permitting, or assisting another to do any act that
could subject him or her to discipline.
Procedures for Enforcing This Code
The chancellor shall adopt procedures to ensure students are afforded
appropriate notice and an opportunity to be heard before the university
imposes any sanction for a violation of the Student Conduct Code
(https://calstate.policystat.com/policy/14075291/latest/). [Note:
At the time of publication, such procedures are set forth in the
California State University Student Conduct Procedure Policy (https://
calstate.policystat.com/policy/14075291/latest/) (Revised October
6,2023).
Application of This Code
Sanctions for the conduct listed above can be imposed on applicants,
enrolled students, students between academic terms, graduates awaiting
degrees, and students who withdraw from school while a disciplinary
matter is pending. Conduct that threatens the safety or security of the
university community, or substantially disrupts the functions or operation
of the University is within the jurisdiction of this Article regardless of
whether it occurs on or off campus. Nothing in this Code may conflict
with Education Code Section 66301 that prohibits disciplinary action
against students based on behavior protected by the First Amendment.
Title 5, California Code of Regulations, § 41302. 
Disposition of Fees: University Emergency; Interim
Suspension
The president of the university may place on probation, suspend, or
expel a student for one or more of the causes enumerated in Section
41301. No fees or tuition paid by or for such student for the semester,
quarter, or summer session in which the student is suspended or expelled
shall be refunded. If the student is readmitted before the close of the
semester, quarter, or summer session in which the student is suspended,
no additional tuition or fees shall be required of the student on account of
the suspension.
During periods of emergency, as determined by the president of the
individual university, the president may, after consultation with the
chancellor, place into immediate effect any emergency regulations,
procedures, and other measures deemed necessary or appropriate to
meet the emergency, safeguard persons and property, and maintain
educational activities.
The president may immediately impose an interim suspension in
all cases in which there is reasonable cause to believe that such an
immediate suspension is required in order to protect lives or property
and to insure the maintenance of order. A student so placed on interim
suspension shall be given prompt notice of charges and the opportunity
for a hearing within 10 days of the imposition of interim suspension.
During the period of interim suspension, the student shall not, without
prior written permission of the president or designated representative,
2024-25 University Catalog 157
enter any of the CSUs other than to attend the hearing. Violation of any
condition of interim suspension shall be grounds for expulsion.
Civil and Criminal Penalties for Violation
of Federal Copyrights Law
Anyone who is found to be liable for copyright infringement may be
liable for either the owner's actual damages along with any profits of
the infringer or statutory damages of up to $30,000 per work infringed.
In the case of a willful infringement, a court may award up to $150,000
per work infringed. (See 17 U.S.C. §504.) Courts also have discretion to
award costs and attorneys’ fees to the prevailing party. (See 17 U.S.C.
§505.) Under certain circumstances, willful copyright infringement may
also result in criminal penalties, including imprisonment and fines. (See
17 U.S.C. §506 and 18 U.S.C. §2319.)
Student Right-to-Know Law
Under the federal Student Right-to-Know legislation, institutions of higher
education are required to disclose information regarding graduation
rates for first time, full-time, regularly enrolled freshman. Prospective
and currently enrolled students may review this information on the CSU
Dominguez Hills Division of Student Affairs webpage accessible at
www.csudh.edu/stuaffs/coninfo.htm (http://www.csudh.edu/stuaffs/
coninfo.htm). Questions regarding this information are referred to the
Media Relations Office at the University.
The federal government requires that institutions of higher learning
inform prospective and continuing students regarding information
pertaining to campus crime statistics, graduation and transfer rates,
Family Education Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA), and athletic
participation rates/financial support (Equity in Athletics Disclosure
Act). In addition to CSUDH's Drug and Alcohol Policy, this information
is available at the following web site: www.csudh.edu/stuaffs/
coninfo.htm (http://www.csudh.edu/stuaffs/coninfo.htm). Information
concerning grievance procedures for students who feel aggrieved in their
relationships with the university, its policies, practices and procedures,
or its faculty and staff may be obtained from The Office of Human
Resources Management. 1000 E. Victoria St. Carson, CA 90747. (310)
243-3771.
Student Complaint Procedure (Complaints
Regarding the CSU)
The California State University (CSU) takes very seriously complaints and
concerns regarding the institution. If you have a complaint regarding the
CSU, you may present your complaint as follows:
1. If your complaint concerns CSU’s compliance with academic program
quality and accrediting standards, you may present your complaint
on the Western Association of School and Colleges (WASC) website
(http://www.wascsenior.org/comments/). WASC is the agency that
accredits the CSU's academic program.
2. If your complaint concerns an alleged violation by CSU of any
law that prohibits discrimination, harassment or retaliation based
on a protected status (such as age, disability, gender (or sex),
gender identity, gender expression, nationality, race or ethnicity
(including color, caste, or ancestry), religion or veteran or military
status), you may present your complaint as described in Section XVI
(Nondiscrimination Policy).
3. If your complaint concerns an alleged violation by the CSU of other
state law, including laws prohibiting fraud and false advertising,
you may present your complaint to the university president or
designee, the Provost and Vice President of Academic Affairs at
academicaffairs@csudh.edu. See Procedure for Student Complaints
—Executive Order No. 1063 for details regarding the complaint
requirements and complaint process.
4. Other complaints regarding the CSU may be presented to the
university dean of students [or other appropriate administrator],
who will provide guidance on the appropriate university process for
addressing your particular issue.
If you believe that your complaint warrants further attention after you
have exhausted all the steps outlined by the university, or by WASC, you
may file an appeal with the Assistant Vice Chancellor, Academic and
Student Affairs (or designee) at the CSU Chancellor's Office.
This procedure should not be construed to limit any right that you may
have to take legal action to resolve your complaint.
Veterans' Responsibilities
Students receiving veteran's benefits have several important
responsibilities regarding their certification status for receipt of those
benefits. These responsibilities are:
Prompt Notification of Withdrawal
It is the responsibility of each veteran student receiving benefits to notify
the Registrar's Office immediately upon withdrawal from the University.
This is done through use of the Notice of Withdrawal form. The form,
including last date of attendance, should be completed and submitted
promptly upon cessation of attendance.
Prompt Notification of Change in Units
When a course is added or dropped, the veteran student must complete
and submit the Change of Program form immediately, including last date
of attendance for dropped courses, so that any necessary adjustment
in certification may be prepared and submitted by the school certifying
official from the Veterans Resource Center. For questions, please contact
sco@csudh.edu.
Enrollment in Proper Courses for Graduate Level
Students
Graduate level veteran students are reminded that full-time certification
for eight units is based upon enrollment in eight units of graduate
level (500) courses or undergraduate level courses which are part of
the graduate program. Enrollment in eight units of courses other than
courses in the graduate program does not constitute full-time enrollment
status. The status of graduate level students enrolled in undergraduate
courses not in the graduate program will be certified as less than full
time.


