Accounting (ACC)
ACC 230.  Financial Accounting.  (3 Units)  
A survey of financial statements under existing generally accepted
accounting principles. Emphasis is on underlying concepts, principles,
and mechanics to make the statements meaningful to users.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
ACC 231.  Managerial Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 230. Accounting for planning and control. Topics
include objectives, terminology, concepts, product costing, cost patterns,
cost-volume-profit analysis, contribution margin, profit planning, standard
costs, flexible budgets, decentralized operations, relevant costs and uses
of accounting data for managerial decision making.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ACC 330.  Intermediate Accounting I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 230. Professional level accounting, conceptual
framework, balance sheet, income statement, compound interest, cash,
receivables, inventories, fixed and intangible assets, depreciation, current
and contingent liabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ACC 331.  Intermediate Accounting II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 330. Professional level accounting, bonds and longterm notes, short-term and long-term investments, capital stock, retained
earnings, income recognition, income taxes, post-employment benefits,
leases, statement of cash flows, earnings per share, changes and errors,
financial analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ACC 333.  Income Taxation I.  (3 Units)  
Federal income tax law as related to individuals and sole proprietorship.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ACC 336.  Intro To Internal Audit.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 231 and CIS 270. Survey of contemporary internal
auditing with emphasis on financial, compliance, and operational
auditing. Coverage will include audit planning, specific audit techniques,
auditing in a computerized environment, emerging issues and report
writing. Course includes case studies and computer applications.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 337.  Cost Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 231. The nature, objectives, and procedure of cost
accounting and control; job costing and process costing; joint product
costing; standard costs; theories of cost allocation and absorption; uses
of cost accounting data for management decision making.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ACC 339.  Acctg & Ctrl Multnl Comp.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 231. Study of comparative accounting systems,
international accounting standards, currency translation and foreign
exchange, transfer pricing, reporting, taxation, auditing and control
problems.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ACC 340.  Accounting Information Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ACC 230, ACC 337, and CIS 270 are required. Focuses on
both conceptual models and physical implementation of accounting
information systems. Topics include the nature and relevance of
accounting internal controls, the relationship of accounting systems
to the functional areas of accounting, and contemporary information
technology
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 385.  Entrepreneurial Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Explores accounting issues unique to start-ups, venture capital and
entrepreneurship, and includes aspects involving the setup and use
of low-cost computer accounting programs with POS and inventory
management.
Offered All terms
ACC 430.  Advanced Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 331. Concepts and principles of partnerships, business
combinations, accounting for multinational enterprises, and introduction
to governmental and nonprofit accounting.
Offered Fall, Spring
172 Africana Studies (AFS)
ACC 431.  Govt & Nonprofit Acctg.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 230. Nature of fund accounting systems used by
governments and nonprofit entities. Topics include principles underlying
fund accounting, budgeting procedures, discussion of types of funds
used. Course requirements include computerized term project.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 433.  Income Taxation II.  (3 Units)  
Federal income tax law as related to partnerships, corporations, estates
and trusts; estate and gift taxes.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 435.  Auditing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ACC 330 and OMG 321. The audit environment, reports,
professional ethics, objectives, evidence and documentation, planning,
analytical review, materiality and risk, internal control, attribute and
variable sampling, EDP systems, transactions cycles, balance sheet and
income statement accounts, compilations, reviews, and other special
purpose reports.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ACC 502.  Advance Cost Management and Related Accounting.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 230 or equivalent. Application of functional accounting
in contemporary business. Decision making through the integrated use
of financial accounting (reporting to outside interests) and managerial
accounting (accounting information for internal decision making)
including relevant income tax consequences. Case analysis oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
ACC 510.  Research of Accounting Principles.  (3 Units)  
Develops a student's ability o conduct accounting research employing the
FASB Codification of U.S. GAAP, U.S. tax laws, international auditing and
governmental standards and guidance. Research will culminate in written
reports on accounting issues. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
ACC 520.  Accounting Ethics and Corporate Social Responsibility.  (3
Units)  
Examines the ethical responsibilities of accounting professionals by
utilizing various authoritative codes of conduct, professional standards
and applied ethical theory. This course also examines the concept of
corporate social responsibility by analyzing complex CSR-related issues.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
ACC 530.  Forensic Accounting and Cybersecurity for Accounting MS
Program.  (3 Units)  
Explores the forensic accountant's role in today's economy. Topics
covered include fraud detection and investigation techniques, cyber
security, valuation of closely held businesses, lost profits analyses,
types of litigation support services, and legal concepts governing expert
witness testimony.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 540.  Advanced Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Concepts and principles of partnerships, business combination,
accounting for multinational enterprises, and introduction to
governmental and nonprofit accounting
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 550.  Advanced Auditing for Accounting MS Program.  (3 Units)  
Masters-level course designed to enhance students' understanding of
the following: (1) fundamental auditing concepts, (2) the application of
auditing standards to real-world cases, (3) a risk-management approach
to handling client acceptance and continuance issues, and (4) ethical
issues faced by auditors.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 560.  Accounting Information Systems and Associated Internal
Control Frameworks.  (3 Units)  
Master-level course with focus on both conceptual models and physical
implementation of accounting information systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 570.  Financial Statement Analysis and Valuation.  (3 Units)  
Course designed to prepare students to interpret and analyze financial
statements in greater depth for tasks such as credit and security
analyses, lending and investment decisions, and other decisions that rely
on financial data from the perspective of financial statement users.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 580.  Strategic Tax Planning.  (3 Units)  
Provides a comprehensive understanding of tax-planning framework as it
relates to business transactions of all parties, considerations of implicit
and explicit taxes as well as considerations of various costs and nontax
issues of business entities.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 590.  Advanced Capstone Governmental and Non-Profit
Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 540 is required. Capstone course that covers
Governmental and Non-Profit Accounting, which includes the nature of
fund accounting systems used by governments and nonprofit entities.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
ACC 595.  Selected Topics in Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and ACC 502. Intensive study of a
specialized area of Accounting on a selected topic of particular interest
to faculty and students. Three hours of seminar per week. Specific topic
listed in class schedule. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Africana Studies (AFS)
AFS 100.  The African American Experience.  (3 Units)  
Examines the historical and contemporary manifestations of the sacred
and secular continuum in African Diaspora Arts and Religion. Will study
examples of music, dance, drama, literature and visual arts expressions
of religion and theological values.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 200.  Intro to Africana Studies.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the discipline of Africana Studies. An overview of
the philosophical underpinnings, evolution, theories and concepts, and
practical applications of the disciplines; and the African-centered, holistic
method of studying the African world.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 201.  African World Civilizations.  (3 Units)  
Students study African civilization from antiquity to the present. The
course explores African civilizations interaction with and contribution to
world civilizations like Greek, Asian, European and American civilizations.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 173
AFS 205.  Introduction to Hip Hop.  (3 Units)  
Hip Hop, the music and lifestyle, is rooted in African American urban
life in the middle 1970's on the streets of New York City. This course will
critically explore the evolution of Hip Hop as a socio-cultural political
movement. This course is restricted to 1st time Freshman going through
the First Year Experience. Offered Spring term only.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
AFS 212.  Intro To Comp Eth & Global Soc.  (3 Units)  
Explores the lived experiences of the Ethnic/Global communities in the
U.S. and their places of origin. The course will examine the socio-cultural
dynamics in, Africana Asian-Pacific and Chicano/Latino communities.
Offered Fall, Summer
AFS 220.  African World Peoples & Soc..  (3 Units)  
This course provides students with an overview of the geographical,
historical, and cultural foundations of African world peoples and
societies.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 231.  Africana Literary Traditions.  (3 Units)  
The course examines literary traditions developed by people of African
descent who reside in Africa as well as throughout the world.
Offered Fall
AFS 241.  His Afr World People:1450-1888.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the history of African people throughout the world from
1450-1888. Identifies African migration, national culture, and political
divisions. Examines the dynamics of the Transatlantic Slave Trade, and
surveys the territorial dispersal of African people around the globe, their
links and metamorphoses.
Offered Infrequent
AFS 242.  His of Afn People:1888-present.  (3 Units)  
An examination of the history of African world peoples from 1888 with
the end of slavery in Brazil to the present. The dynamics of apartheid and
colonialism, nationalism, civil rights and liberation movements are central
themes.
Offered Infrequent
AFS 295.  Special Topics.  (3 Units)  
An examination of a specific topic and/or subject area of Africana
Studies. Repeatable for credit. Topic will be announced in Schedule of
Classes.
Offered As needed
AFS 301.  Africana Msc thgh 19th C..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 200 and AFS 220. Africana music course designed to
introduce the music and musicians of Africa and the African Diaspora
culture, establishing the African foundation of the musical practices and
exploring early developments in the Diaspora with special focus upon
developments in all parts of the Americas from 1619 to 1888.
Offered As needed
AFS 305.  Theories and Approaches in AFS.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 200. An introduction to the theories and approaches
utilized by Africana Studies scholars. Focus is on the intellectual
approaches to the study of African peoples from the perspective of
Africana cultural imperative.
Offered Fall
AFS 306.  Research Methods in AFS.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 200. Introduces students to intellectual debates in
research methods in Africana Studies. It focuses on the applicability and
relevance of different methods of acquiring, interpreting and presenting
Africana knowledge systems.
Offered Spring
AFS 307.  Research Methods, Theories, and Approaches in African
Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: AFS 200 or permission from instructor. Introduces students
to intellectual debates in research methods, theories, and approaches
in Africana Studies. Focuses on applicability and relevance of different
methods of acquiring, interpreting and presenting Africana knowledge
systems.
Offered Fall
AFS 310.  The African American Experience in the US.  (3 Units)  
Analyzes the social, political and cultural environment of African
Americans in the U.S. Course examines the influence of race on African
Americans' social and historical development. Course focuses on modes
in which African Americans establish and maintain its cultural space.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
AFS 311.  Afro Latinidad & the Caribbean.  (3 Units)  
Explores the politics of globalization on Africana Communities over time.
Focuses on how Africana communities have constructed new space
in the Western Hemisphere. Emphasizes the impact of race, class and
ethnicity on Africana community's development in Latin America and the
Caribbean.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 312.  Cultural Pluralism: Ethnic & Global Society.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 111, AFS 201 and AFS 220 or consent of Department
Chair. In consultation with an Africana Studies faculty, student
undertakes a major project such as the following: original research and
thesis on a given African world historical or theoretical topic; a creative
project such as an original musical composition, art work or performance
with supporting scholarly program notes.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 330.  Africana Lit. & Culture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 231. Survey course that introduces students to both
Africana literature and culture. Provides students with an opportunity
to study and appreciate major Africana political, cultural and historical
issues and experiences through the lenses of Africana literature.
Offered Spring
AFS 331.  Key Movements: African Literature and Culture.  (3 Units)  
Survey course that introduces students to both African literature and
culture. Provides students with an opportunity to study and appreciate
major African political, cultural, and historical issues and experiences
through the lenses of African literature.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 332.  Key Movements: Harlem Renaissance.  (3 Units)  
Explores the artistic productions of key figures, scholarly works analyzing
significant events and films of the time. Focuses on works examining
race, culture, and social issues pertinent to people of African descent.
Explores how the Harlem Renaissance influenced later movements.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
AFS 333.  Black Movements of the Sixties.  (3 Units)  
Explores the dismantling of the overt practice of segregation by exploring
the roles of the Civil Rights Movement and the Black Power Movement, as
well as the literature, art and music which contributed to their vitality.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 334.  African Culture and Art.  (3 Units)  
Examines the historical and contemporary manifestations of the sacred
and secular continuum in African Diaspora Arts and Religion. Will study
examples of music, dance, drama, literature and visual arts expressions
of religion and theological values.
Offered Fall, Summer
174 Africana Studies (AFS)
AFS 340.  Africana Womanhood.  (3 Units)  
Examines the economic, political and social position of Africana women
in the global diaspora by analyzing the legal apparatuses, historical
context and present-day realities of racism, sexism, class oppression and
homophobia that impacts Africana women's daily lives
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 395.  Spec Topics in Africana Stud.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Intensive study of a single period,
figure, movement, or idea in African world history/culture. Course
repeatable for credit. Topics will be announced in Schedule of Classes.
Offered Infrequent
AFS 396.  Practicum in Africana Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Supervised work experience in
an African or African diaspora community with emphasis upon social
and economic development in a local, national and/or international
setting. Supervision emphasizes training and application of practical
and technical skills. Students will be placed in settings suitable to their
academic specialization. CR/NC grading. Repeatable courses. One hour
of tutorial per week is required with instructor.
Offered Infrequent
AFS 423.  Africana Leaders Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 200 is recommended. An examination of the life
and times of important Africana leaders and their legacies to the
African world. Emphasis will be on the major competing trends in the
interpretations of the leadersÂ¿ legacies and the interests that shape
these trends. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
AFS 424.  Africana Political Thought.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 220 is recommended. Examines political opinions and
ideas of Africana thinkers and leaders. Interrogates Africana political
leaders and thinkers understanding and interpretation of the political
dynamics in the African world.
Offered Spring
AFS 490.  Seminar in Africana Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of GWAR and consent of instructor. An
integrative seminar serving as a capstone to the major in Africana
Studies. A research report will be required. Additionally, other creative
projects may be assigned in areas such as art, music composition and
performance. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
AFS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor. Independent study of particular
topics in Africana Studies under the direction of a member of the Africana
Studies faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
AFS 495.  Special Topics in Africana St.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Intensive study of an issue, concept
or theme in Africana Studies. May be taken for credit only once for the
major. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
AFS 496.  Internship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Under the direction of the internship
faculty associate, students work in an African diaspora community
applying skills and knowledge learned in the classroom, as well as the
workplace. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 497.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Directed readings on a particular
Africana Studies topic or subject area under the direction of a member of
the Africana Studies faculty. Repeatable course
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Introduces students to intellectual
debates on research methods in Africana Studies. Focuses on selected
articles that discuss different methods of acquiring, interpreting and
presenting Africana knowledge. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
AFS 499.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Critical analysis of Asian and Pacific Islander American artists and
their creative expression in music, television, film, and on the internet.
Examines issues of stereotyping and exclusion in Hollywood as well as
empowerment through artistic expression and community engagement.
GE F1
Offered As needed
AFS 590.  Afr Amer Lit & Pol Thought.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
AFS 594.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of Department Chair. Independent investigation
of a research problem or directed readings in a selected area of Africana
Studies.
Offered As needed
AFS 595.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: AFS 201 is recommended. An intensive study of a concept,
movement, school of thought, or individual within the discipline of
Africana Studies. Intended for students with senior or graduate standing.
Specific topic listed in Class Schedule. Repeatable course. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered As needed
AFS 596.  Pract in Teach Africana Stdy.  (1-4 Units)  
Offered As needed
AFS 597.  Graduate Directed Reading.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and classified graduate standing.
Extensive reading in selected areas under the guidance of a faculty
mentor. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
AFS 598.  Graduate Directed Research.  (1-4 Units)  
Independent research under direction of supervising faculty member in
Africana Studies. Repeatable for credit for a maximum of six units.
Offered As needed
AFS 599.  Final Project.  (1-4 Units)  
In consultation with a faculty member, writing of a master's thesis or
completion of a project. Choice of area requires prior consent of advisor.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
AFS 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not their
thesis, project, or comprehensive examinations, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 175
Anthropology (ANT)
ANT 100.  Introduction to Cultural Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the anthropological approach to the study of humans.
Explores the concepts of culture, cultural institutions and processes,
the evolution of cultural systems, and the application of anthropology to
current social problems.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ANT 101.  Intro to Biological Anthro.  (3 Units)  
Examination of human biology. Introduces scientific approaches to
genetics and evolution, primate evolution and behavior, evidence from
fossil record for human evolution, and biological variation among modern
humans, human growth and disease patterns, and human demography.
Offered Fall, Spring
ANT 102.  Ancient Civilizations.  (3 Units)  
Examination of origins and development of world civilizations. Using
evidence from the archaeological record, the written record, the arts,
literature, and the sciences, human cultural achievements are examined
from the earliest beginnings to the sixteenth century.
Offered Fall, Spring
ANT 115.  Intro To Arch & Phys Anth.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to archaeological methodology and human biology.
Review of fossil evidence for the biological evolution of humans and
archaeological evidence for the major stages in cultural development.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
ANT 310.  Culture & Personality: Psychological Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the human personality within cultural contexts. Topics
include personality formation and child-rearing; stress and mental/
physical health problems which occur with cultural change; aging, roles
and communication among local and worldwide ethnic groups.
Offered Fall, Spring
ANT 312.  Language And Culture.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of language as an aspect of culture. Relationship between
language and culture patterns, dynamics of language and cultural
change; the problem of meaning.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ANT 313.  Meth & Tech In Arch.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Basic procedures and techniques
used by archaeologists to excavate, analyze and interpret prehistoric
remains. Field and/or laboratory activities. Variable topics will include
field procedures, laboratory procedures or archaeological method and
theories. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
ANT 315.  Magic & Religion.  (3 Units)  
A comparative analysis of magico-religious systems in their cultural
setting and the role of the supernatural in human societies.
Offered Spring
ANT 330.  North American Indians.  (3 Units)  
Comparative study of cultural patterns of selected past and present
native peoples of the United States and Canada .
Offered Spring
ANT 333.  Ancient Peoples Of Mexico.  (3 Units)  
The history and archaeology of cultures of Central Mexico and
Guatemala. Alternating topics include the rise of the Olmecs to the
establishment of Teotihuacan and Tenochtitlan and the rise of Izapa
to the development of classic and Postclassic Maya Civilization.Â
Repeatable course with alternate topics.
Offered Fall
ANT 334.  Mesoamerica Past and Present.  (3 Units)  
Explores historical and contemporary trends among the diverse cultures
of Mexico and Central America from Pre-Columbian era to today. Focus
on indigenous peoples and relationships between indigenous and nonindigenous peoples.
Offered Fall
ANT 335.  Comparative Cultures.  (3 Units)  
The world's cultural and social diversity from a sociocultural
anthropological perspective. Variable topics include regional surveys
(North America, South America, Africa, Eurasia) and/or selected themes
in the study of culture. Repeatable course with alternate topics.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 336.  Comparative Cultures: Culture, Environment and
Globalization.  (3 Units)  
Ethnographic and comparative approach to the study of the diverse
cultures of the world. Examines substance patterns and sociopolitical
organization of a variety of cultures in the past and present.
Offered Spring
ANT 337.  Ethnography and Film.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of crosscultural differences as documented in visual images
and texts dealing with three traditional societies, the Yanomami, the
Dobe, and the Dugum. Analysis of subsistence and economy, social
cohesion and social conflict, world view, and representations of other
societies in a world characterized by dramatic cultural changes.
Offered Fall
ANT 338.  Mainland Southeast Asia.  (3 Units)  
Anthropology of Mainland Southeast Asia (Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar
[Burma], Thailand, Vietnam) from ancient to modern times. Analysis of
how natural and social environments (geography, climate, migration,
trade, religion, arts, and state craft) contribute to the region's cultural
diversity, commonalities, and change through time.
Offered Spring
ANT 339.  Mexico and Central America.  (3 Units)  
Anthropology of Mesoamerica's indigenous cultures. Examines cultural
patterns developed in prehispanic and colonial periods, and analyzes
how historical factors, environmental conditions, and political and
economic environments have influenced contemporary situations for
Indian peoples of the region.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 340.  Peoples of Ancient Egypt.  (3 Units)  
Anthropology of ancient Egyptian civilization from its earliest beginnings
to the end of the New Kingdom. Ancient monuments, wall paintings,
statues, tombs and hieroglyphic writing are examined to gain insight into
Egyptian culture and to illuminate the interaction between Egyptians and
foreign peoples.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 341.  Folklore.  (3 Units)  
Theory and method in the study and collection of folktales, myths,
legends, proverbs, riddles, and other forms of verbal tradition.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 342.  South America.  (3 Units)  
Anthropology of cultural differences expressed by indigenous cultures
of South America. Critical analysis of such topics as environment and
adaptation, kinship and social structure, social cohesion and social
conflict, symbolism and ritual, and representations of other societies in a
world characterized by dramatic cultural changes.
Offered Spring
176 Anthropology (ANT)
ANT 344.  Cross-Cult Persp: Aging.  (3 Units)  
Survey and analysis of cultural influences on the physical and social
processes of aging. Examination and comparison of societal roles
available to and assumed by older men and women of various cultures.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 345.  Medical Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Cross-cultural survey of critical problems common to anthropology
and health-related fields; cultural ecology of health and pathology, folk
medical practices; medical beliefs in relation to other aspects of culture;
public health and medical education problems as affected by ethnic
culture; effects of acculturation upon mental and physical health.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 346.  Anthropology Of Work.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the significance of work in contemporary societies. Crosscultural comparisons of workers' life styles. Impact of changing cultural
conditions on work patterns.
Offered Spring
ANT 348.  Society & Automated Tech.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the ramifications of the installation of automated
systems on social and economic conditions of contemporary and future
societies. Analyses of culture change issues and the interrelationships
between automated technologies and lifestyles.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 349.  Anthropology Of The Future.  (3 Units)  
Examination of newly emerging questions and ideas about the cultural
future of humankind. Topics of discussion include the relevance of
anthropology to building a Solar System culture, the possibility of
extraterrestrial contact, and alternative cultural futures.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 350.  Prehistory: Africa & Eurasia.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the archaeological record of the Old World (Europe, Africa,
Asia). Emphasis on the study and critical analysis of excavated materials,
processes of culture change, and reconstructions of social patterns.
Variable topics will include the prehistory of different culture areas and
chronological periods. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring even
ANT 351.  Prehistory of the Americas.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the archaeological record of the New World (North
America, Mesoamerica, and Andean area). Emphasis on critical analysis
of excavated materials, processes of culture change, and reconstructions
of social patterns. Variable topics will include the prehistory of different
culture areas and chronological periods. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring odd
ANT 352.  Human Osteology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ANT 101 is required. Introduction to human osteology, bone
biology and growth, and paleopathology. students will learn differences
between human and non-human remains, determine left and right sides
of bones, and identifying important skeletal landmarks.
Offered All terms, Fall odd
ANT 353.  Forensic Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ANT 101 is required. ANT 352 is recommended. Consent
of instructor is required. Examines the techniques used to create a
biological profile from human skeletal remains. Students will learn the
medicolegal implications of using forensic anthropology techniques to
solve forensic cases involving human skeletal remains.
Offered Spring even
ANT 354.  Biological Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ANT 101 is required. In depth analysis of the topics and
theories in biological anthropology and is meant to be a continuation of
ANT 101.
Offered Fall
ANT 355.  Human Variation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ANT 101 is required. Surveys the biological variation
within and between human populations, including the basic principles
of genetics, evolutionary theory, and the intersection of culture and
genetics. Students will use anthropological and biological theories to
understand differences between human populations.
Offered Spring odd
ANT 360.  Visual Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Survey of anthropological approaches to the study of visual/symbolic
communication, the use of images for the description and analysis of
human behavior, and modes of producing visual ethnographic texts.
Offered Spring odd
ANT 370.  Peoples Of The Old World.  (3 Units)  
A survey of one or more cultural regions of the old World. Specific topics
and areas may vary; for example: Europe, Sub-Saharan Africa, Middle
East, India, Asia, Southeast Asia, Pacific. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 371.  Historical and Cultural Perspectives in Disability Studies.  (3
Units)  
Theoretical and historical perspectives on issues pertaining to disability
studies/research. The course explores cultural concepts of normalcy and
disability and reviews ethnographic contexts of disability in a variety of
communities in the United States and the world.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ANT 375.  Ethnographic Meth & Tech.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ANT 100 and consent of instructor. Basic methods
in the ethnographic study of contemporary communities. Students
conduct supervised field work using audiovisual recording and computer
techniques to collect and analyze data. Two hours of lecture and two
hours of activity (including computer lab) per week.
Offered Fall
ANT 388.  Anthro Theories Of Behav.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: One course in Anthropology. Historical survey and critical
analysis of major schools of anthropological thought employed in
explaining sociocultural behavior and phenomena. An integrative
examination of current developments, issues and applications of the field
of anthropology.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ANT 389.  Transmission Of Culture.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the concept of culture; emphasis on exploration of
cross-cultural commonalities and differences in societal responses.
Analysis of dynamics of cultural change with reference to ethnic and
immigrant groups and institutions in America today. Topics include roles,
institutions, educational processes, family interaction and structure of
social systems.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 390.  Applied Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ANT 100. Course examines the applications of anthropology
to the solution of contemporary social problems. The course examines
the methods of applied anthropology, the relationship between
applied research and theory, and the ethical issues in the practice of
anthropology.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 177
ANT 410.  Environmental Policy & Planning.  (3 Units)  
Examination of natural resource policy on local, national, and
international levels, across multiple and diverse ecosystems. Emphasis
on contemporary management and conservation strategies in the context
of social, scientific, environmental, and legal-institutional factors.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 455.  People Culture, and the Environment.  (3 Units)  
Course examines the political and economic aspects of relationships
between society and nature, especially with reference to current
environmental and human rights issues.
Offered Spring
ANT 456.  Quantitative Methods for Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131 is recommended. Provides an overview of the
basic principles and techniques for developing a quantitative research
design, collecting, and analyzing data, and presenting results. By the
end of the course, all students should be proficient in basic statistical
analysis in anthropological research.
Offered Spring odd
ANT 490.  Proseminar in Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite:Â ANT 100, ANT 101, and ANT 102. Explores careers in
Anthropology, examines distinctions between academic and applied
Anthropology, reviews career options within sub-fields of Anthropology,
examines professional activities of Anthropologists, explains research
design.
Offered Spring
ANT 494.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Independent study of a particular
problem under the direction of a member of the anthropology
department. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
ANT 495.  Selected Topics In Anthropology.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. An intensive study of an issue,
concept or theory in anthropology that is of special interest to both the
faculty member and the students. Repeatable course. Three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
ANT 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
ANT 510.  Environmental Policy and Planning.  (3 Units)  
Examination of natural resource policy on local, national, and
international level, across multiple and diverse ecosystems. Emphasis on
contemporary management and conservation strategies in the context of
social, scientific, environmental, and legal-institutional factors.
Offered Infrequent
ANT 555.  People, Culture and the Environment.  (3 Units)  
Examines the political and economic aspects of relationships between
society and nature, especially with reference to current environmental
and human rights issues.
Offered Spring
ANT 595.  Special Topics in Anthropology.  (3 Units)  
Course exposes students to cross-cultural approaches to environmental
problems and develops environmental problem-solving skills based on
the holistic approach of anthropology. Students will examine the political
and economic aspects of relationships between society and nature in
reference to current environmental and human rights issues.
Offered All terms, Infrequent
Art (ART)
ART 100.  Looking At Art.  (3 Units)  
Learning to perceive art through discussion of selected historical periods,
development of a descriptive vocabulary, and observation of actual works
of art. Introduction to theories of interpretation and evaluation.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ART 101.  Experiencing Creative Art.  (3 Units)  
Learning modes of artistic expression through discussion of theories
of composition, examination of the lives and goals of selected artists
and art movements, and creation of individual and group art projects.
Discussion of projects to develop skills in art criticism. This course is
restricted to 1st time Freshman going through the First Year Experience.
Offered Fall, Spring
ART 150.  Ceramics 1.  (3 Units)  
History of and introduction to ceramics design problems with ceramic
materials emphasizing hand forming. Familiarization with low and high
firing techniques. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
ART 165.  Contemporary Art Practices 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 170 is recommended. Introduction to current art
practices. students will learn to conceptualize and produce contemporary
art using a variety of materials, technologies and post-studio strategies.
Six hours of activity per week.
Offered All terms, Fall
ART 170.  2-D Design.  (3 Units)  
Principles of design as they relate to two dimensional elements (point,
line, shape, texture, color, etc.) and their composition on the pictorial
surface. Introduction to various two-dimensional media. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
ART 171.  3-D Design.  (3 Units)  
Principles of design as they relate to the three-dimensional elements
(line, plane, volume, color) and their composition in space. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Spring, All terms
ART 179.  Drawing 1.  (3 Units)  
A foundation course in drawing, oriented to understanding and use of
various approaches to graphic representation. Six hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ART 180.  Painting 1.  (3 Units)  
A foundation course introducing the student to problems of pictorial
space, organization, and color through the use of two-dimensional
painting media. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring, All terms
ART 190.  Sculpture 1.  (3 Units)  
Basic theory and methods of creating sculptural form by additive
processes. Emphasis on clay modeling and waste-mold casting. Six
hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, All terms
ART 301.  Arts/Crafts For Non-Major.  (3 Units)  
Development, experience, and application of arts and crafts projects
of special value to Liberal Studies and Recreation majors. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
178 Art (ART)
ART 355.  Ceramics 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 150 is required. History of and continuation to ceramics
design problems with ceramic materials emphasizing hand forming.
Familiarization with surface enhancements will also be explored. Six
hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
ART 360.  Contemporary Art Practices 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 165 is required. An intermediate course exploring
current art practices. Students will advance conceptual ideas to produce
contemporary art, expanding on the materials, technologies, and poststudio strategies introduced in Contemporary Art Practices 1. Six hours
of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
ART 361.  Wheel Thrown Ceramics.  (3 Units)  
Introductory course to the use of the potter's wheel Building on the skills
learned in Ceramics I; emphasis on wheel-throwing techniques. Surface
enhancements and kiln firing process will also be addressed. Six hour of
activity per week.
Offered Fall
ART 371.  Drawing 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 179. Development of skill in graphic representation,
stressing an understanding of pictorial space and organization. Problems
of technique and media. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
ART 373.  The Figure 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 179. Development of the graphic representation of the
human form. Live models used to introduce problems of form, structure,
and anatomy. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall
ART 380.  Painting 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 170 and ART 180. Problems in the creative use of the
materials of painting. Emphasis on visual concepts, interpretation, and
expression. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall
ART 384.  Painting 3.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 380. Development of a more comprehensive
understanding of materials and methods as they related to current
concepts of painting. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
ART 385.  Visual Media Studies 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 150, ART 165, ART 170, ART 171, ART 179, ART 180,
ART 190 and ART 371 are required. ART 355, ART 360, ART 373, ART 380
and ART 392 are recommended. Intermediate course to begin creating a
cohesive body of work. Emphasis on critical analysis, individual practice,
group critique and current theoretical issues. Conceptualization and
production of art can include any visual media. Six hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall
ART 392.  Sculpture 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 190 is required. Experiments in contemporary sculpture
combining traditional concepts and the use of found objects and other
readily available non-traditional materials. Introduction to wood and
metal fabricating. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
ART 395.  Special Topics in Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of special interest for students
in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as announced.
Offered Infrequent
ART 447.  Visual Identity and Branding.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 344 is required. Study of building brands and brand
identity. Visual systems and development of cultural messages are
explored. Projects include development, research, client interaction,
presentation, and independent student work. Six hours of activity per
week. Fee required.
Offered Fall
ART 463.  Ceramics 3.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 355 or ART 361 is required. Study of the Mexica
Culture and Nahuatl languages as reflected in 16th Century manuscripts.
Designed to give students an indigenous cultural and linguistic
perspective to read and analyze passages from primary sources in
classic Nahuatl.
Offered Fall
ART 474.  The Figure 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 373. An advanced course in the graphic study of the
human figure. Emphasis upon the creative interpretation of form and
structure through media. Repeatable course. Six hours of activity per
week. Fee required
Offered Fall
ART 485.  Visual Media Studies 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 150, ART 165, ART 170, ART 171, ART 180, ART 190,
ART 371 and ART 385 are required. ART 355, ART 360, ART 373, ART 380
and ART 392 are recommended. Capstone course to complete a cohesive
body of work for exhibition. Emphasis on critical analysis, individual
practice, group critique and current theoretical issues. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Spring
ART 486.  Painting 4.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 384. Advanced study emphasizing aesthetic
development, personal imagery, and individual critical awareness. Selfinitiated studio problems. Repeatable course. Six hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
ART 492.  Professional Practices Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 150, ART 170, ART 171, ART 180, ART 165, ART 190,
ART 371, Senior Status, Exhibiting in Spring Exhibition required. Corequisite: ART 385 is required. This capstone provides professional
training in the business of art addressing exhibition design, portfolio
development, grant writing, residencies, and graduate school
applications. A requirement before participation in the senior exhibition.
Sx hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall
ART 493.  Special Studies In Art.  (3 Units)  
Detailed study of material, method, concept, or period of Art. Repeatable
course. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
ART 494.  Independent Study In Art.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing as an Art major or minor is required;
consent of instructor and department chair. ART 494 may not be
substituted for a required course in the major or minor without prior
consent of instructor and adviser. An art project undertaken with the
advice and supervision of a Studio or Design Art faculty member.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 179
ART 495.  Selected/Variable Topics in Art.  (3 Units)  
Detailed study of art. Repeatable course. Restricted to juniors and
seniors. Department consent required.
Offered As needed
ART 496.  Internship In Art.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division standing and consent of instructor.
Supervised on- or off-campus art related work in selected museums,
galleries, art and slide libraries, studios or commercial firms. Practical
application of knowledge to such areas as exhibition, conservation,
cataloging, and Art History, Studio or Design activity. Term paper required.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
ART 498.  Directed Rch Art History.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing as an Art major or minor is required;
consent of instructor and department chair. Preparation of a research
paper on a selected topic in the History of Art. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
Art History (ARH)
ARH 110.  Introduction To World Art 1.  (3 Units)  
An overview of the major works of art and architecture from Prehistoric
times through the Middle Ages around the world. Each style of art is
related to the society which produced it.
Offered Fall
ARH 111.  Introduction To World Art 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ARH 110 is recommended. An overview of the major works
of art and architecture from the Renaissance through the Modern Period.
Each style of art is related to the society which produced it.
Offered Spring
ARH 322.  Medieval to Gothic Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111. Examination of the art of Early
Europe with emphasis upon the Medieval and Gothic periods. Emphasis
is placed upon the study of the many forms of art and architecture from
Medieval to Gothic periods including manuscripts, reliquaries, churches
and cathedrals.
Offered As needed
ARH 323.  Renaissance to Baroque Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. An examination of
the painting, sculpture, and architecture of the Early, Middle and Late
Italian Renaissance as well as related developments in the North. The
transitions from the Renaissance to Mannerism is studied as is the
flourishing of Baroque arts in Italy, Spain, and throughout the Golden
Age of Dutch painting. Rococo arts in France and Germany are also
considered.
Offered As needed
ARH 331.  Modern Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. History of visual arts
in Europe and the United States from the middle of the 19th Century
to World War II. Movements studied include Realism, Impressionism,
Post-Impressionism, Early Abstraction, Expressionism, Cubism, Dada,
Surrealism, and Abstract Expressionism.
Offered As needed
ARH 332.  Modern Architecture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. An examination of
key developments in the history of Modern Architecture beginning with
the Beaux-Arts Style and progressing through Art Nouveau, The Chicago
School, Early 20th Century Avant-Gardes, Art Deco, the International
Style and Modern Architecture. Writings of important practitioners and
theorists such as Louis B. Sullivan, Adolph Loos, Le Corbrusier and others
are also studied.
Offered As needed
ARH 333.  Contemporary Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. An examination of
developments in the visual arts from 1980 to the present with emphasis
upon the emergence of new media and forms. The course contextualizes
art from the period within theoretical contexts of postmodernity.
Offered As needed
ARH 337.  Art from Asia.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111. An examination of arts from
selected regions of Asia including China, Japan, and Korea that includes
study of traditional and contemporary forms.
Offered As needed
ARH 350.  Art Of The United States.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. History of the
visual arts int he United States from pre-colonization through the
postwar period. Topics include the role of Native American and Spanish
influences, European colonization, the Civil War, Gilded Age, World War I,
Harlem Renaissance and World War II on the development of Art in the
United States.
Offered Fall
ARH 352.  Design History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ARH 111 is required. Introduces students to the history
and theory of design from the Renaissance to the modern poster and
contemporary digital developments. The relationship of design to social
and political developments through history is emphasized.
Offered Fall
ARH 363.  Art of Latin America.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111. A study of the history of PreColumbian arts of Mesoamerican from the Pre-formative through PostClassic periods. Investigates architecture, monuments, sculpture,
ceramics, and other arts from key archaeological sites. Concludes with
examination of ancient Mayan art and culture.
Offered Fall odd
ARH 365.  Art from Africa.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ARH 110 and ARH 111. Study of ancient arts from Africa
with emphasis upon selected regions including North Africa, Western
Sudan, West Africa and the Western and Eastern Congo Basins.
Offered As needed
ARH 366.  Writing in the Visual Arts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. Designed to build
skills in a range of writing found within the visual arts. Students analyze
different forms of written communication within the visual arts and
generate a body of writing that addresses different rhetorical situations
and targeted audiences. Students generate, review in peer groups and
revise samples of writing in the visual arts for presentation online.
Offered Fall
180 Arts Administration (AAD)
ARH 368.  Women In Art.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111 are required. An analysis of women
as artists from the medieval period to the present with special emphasis
given to women artists of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
Offered Spring odd
ARH 370.  Art and Social Protest.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ARH 110 and ARH 111. History of the technological and
stylistic developments in the architecture of the nineteenth and twentieth
centuries.
Offered As needed
ARH 490.  Seminar in Theories of Art Criticism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing as an Art History major or minor or
consent of instructor and department chair. ARH 110 and ARH 111 are
required. An examination of various approaches to art criticism and
theory with particular emphasis on modern developments. Subjects
studied include Iconography, Psychoanalysis, Queer Theory, PostColonialism, Feminist Theory and Deconstruction.
Offered Spring odd
ARH 495.  Selected/Variable Topics in Art History.  (3 Units)  
Detailed study of a period, area, figure or movement in the history of art.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
ARH 496.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Internship in Art History related field both on campus and externally.
Restricted to juniors and seniors. Department consent required.
Offered As needed
ARH 498.  Undergraduate Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Like and independent study, individual students will consult with Art
History faculty to conduct an independent research project in Art History.
Restricted to juniors and seniors. Department consent required.
Offered As needed
Arts Administration (AAD)
Asian-Pacific Studies (APP)
APP 101.  Introduction To Asian Studies.  (3 Units)  
Basic themes and key issues in Asia and the Pacific region. Multidisciplinary survey of art, literature, philosophy, religion, politics, and
society. Background to understanding tradition and change in the region,
and introduction to the multicultural roots of Asian-Pacific Americans.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 195.  Special Topics in Asian Pacific Studies.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
APP 201.  Introduction to Asian American Studies.  (3 Units)  
Examines basic themes and key issues in the Study of Asian Americans.
Interdisciplinary survey of immigration history, community formation,
and development of ethnic identities through the arts, literature, music,
multimedia and internet, cultural festivals, scholarship. and student and
community organizations.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
APP 212.  Introduction to Comparative Ethnic and Global Societies.  (3
Units)  
Explores the lived experiences of the three Ethnic/Global communities in
the United States and their place of origin. Examines the socio-cultural
dynamics in Africana, Asian-Pacific and Chicano/Latino communities.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 225.  Pacific Islander Culture in Oceania and the U.S..  (3 Units)  
Examines the cultural, historical and contemporary experiences of
various peoples of Hawai'i and the Pacific including the struggle
over land, traditions, and sovereignty, state and national political
restructurings, and global flows od knowledge, capital, and bodies.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 295.  Spec Topic Asian-Pacific Studies.  (3 Units)  
A study of selected topics or issues in Asian-Pacific Studies. Repeatable
for a maximum of six units for credit.
Offered As needed
APP 311.  Contemporary Issues in Asian American Communities.  (3
Units)  
Examination of the history and contemporary realities of Asian America.
Analyzes the differences and commonalities in the experiences of various
Asian American populations, focusing on the interplay of ace, ethnicity,
class, gender and culture in shaping their lives.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
APP 314.  Asian Americans and the Media.  (3 Units)  
An investigation of the roles that artist-activists from the diverse areas of
the world have played in 20th and 21st century social justice struggles.
Students become familiar with the works of key resistance artists,
including but not limited to the Mexican Muralists, members of the
California Labor School, 1960's activists, and feminists. The course
exposes students to specific propaganda art repositories, such as
the Oakland Museum of California, where one of the world's largest
and culturally diverse collections of social justice art is housed. The
course examines museums in their evolution as sites of contestation
for exhibitors and visitors who challenge their previously unquestioned
scripts
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 315.  Asian Pop Culture and Globalization.  (3 Units)  
Explores the growing transnational flows of Asian popular culture in
historical and socioeconomic contexts. Analyzes the ramifications of
the popularity of Asian pop culture for the changing contemporary global
cultural landscape and power relations.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
APP 318.  Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Lao Americans: Culture, History,
and Identity.  (3 Units)  
Vietnamese, Cambodian, and Lao American culture, history, and identity
examines the challenges of these immigrant groups focusing on the
context of refugee experiences, intergenrational conflict, education, and
preservation and transformation of culture in American society. GE F3.Â
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 319.  Filipino American Experience.  (3 Units)  
Explores the lived experiences of Filipino Americans through the lens
of Philippine history and culture, U.S. colonization, immigration, and
community formation. Examines key issues, debates, and theories
about diversity, ethnic identity and assimilation, education, families, and
gender/sexuality.
Offered Spring odd
APP 325.  Asian Pacific Art, Music and Literature.  (3 Units)  
Examination of diverse Asian Pacific cultures and history through art,
music, and written and oral literatures. Analyzes the contributions of
past and present artists, musicians/composers, and writers to the
establishment and challenging of cultural identities in a globalized and
mass-mediated world.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 181
APP 327.  Values and Communication of Asian Pacific Cultures.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of all lower division General Education
requirements. Junior Examination of basic values and societal outlooks
unique to various Asian Pacific groups. Comparative analysis of
verbal and nonverbal communication models for better cross-cultural
understanding.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
APP 331.  Japanese Comics/Animation.  (3 Units)  
Focusing on Japanese comics and animation, this course examines the
contemporary transnational flows of culture and their implications. It also
explores how the existing power relations between the East/West, center/
periphery, and men/women are reflected and challenged in the production
and dissemination of Japanese comics and animation.
Offered As needed
APP 333.  E Asian Cul/Soc in Cinema.  (3 Units)  
Through critical analyses of films, this course will explore various
aspects of East Asian societies including history, cultural traditions,
socioeconomic transformations, politics, identity, gender and
generational relations. It will also examine the issue of ethnic/racial/
national/gender representation in East Asian cinema and its implications.
Offered As needed
APP 335.  Asian Pacific Culinary Culture.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of Asian Pacific culture traditions and their transformation and
globalization. Examines how Asian Pacific food culture intersects with
local ecology, gender, cultural traditions, identity politics, (im)migration,
colonialism, modernization, and globalization.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 339.  Asian Diaspora and Transnational Asian Religions.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of Asian diaspora populations' practice of Asian religions
outside of Asia, especially in the U.S. Examines how Asian religions are
transformed in different historical, social and cultural contexts and how
the transformation in also intertwined with identity and communitybuilding.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 343.  Asian Pacific Film & Literature.  (3 Units)  
Critical analysis on how a written source can be transformed from
literature into film. Several Asian Films and Asian novels or short stories
will be examined.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 350.  Asian-Pacific Gender and Family.  (3 Units)  
Critical analysis of Asian gender and family structure and their dynamic
processes. Examines issues of dating, marriage, reproduction, parenting
and child socialization, domestic labor, the negotiation of paid work and
family care, sexual desires and practices.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 395.  Special Topics in Asian Pacific Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of program coordinator. An intensive study of
an issue, concept or theme in Asian-Pacific Studies. Repeatable for a
maximum of nine units for credit.
Offered As needed
APP 490.  Sem: Asian-Pacific Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: APP 301 and APP 321. Capstone experience in AsianPacific concentration. In-depth study and project development of
historical or current issues confronting Asian-Pacific populations. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
APP 494.  Indepen Study:Asian-Pacific.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent study of a particular topic in Asian/Pacific Studies, relating
two or more disciplines, such as anthropology, art, education, history,
languages, music, philosophy, politics, or sociology under the direction of
an Asian/Pacific Studies Program faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
APP 495.  Selected Topics:.  (3 Units)  
An intensive study of selected topics or issues in Asian-Pacific studies.
Offered Infrequent
APP 496.  Internship in Asian Pacific Studies.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Lower division courses in Asian Pacific Studies Involves
supervised work experience in community-based business, non-profit
organization, or government agency serving Asian Pacific Americans
with specific emphasis upon business and public administration, public
policy, program planning, and economic development projects in a
local, national, and/or international setting. Supervision emphasizes
training and application of administration, analytical, socio-political and
cultural knowledge, and technical skills. Students will be placed in setting
suitable to their academic specialization. One hour of tutorial per week is
required with instructor. Student must complete all of the lower division
courses in Asian Pacific Studies before they can enroll in an internship.
Offered Fall, Spring
Behavioral Science (BEH)
BEH 300.  Res Methods Behavioral Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131 or PSY 230 or SOC 220 and junior standing.
The course covers five areas: preparing and writing an academic paper,
preparing and writing a literature review, developing a research proposal,
general research methodology and delivering a research presentation.
Offered Fall, Spring
BEH 490.  Seminar In Beh Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Prerequisites: MAT 131, PSY 230 OR SOC 220 and
BEH 300, POL 300, and SOC 305 are required. Must pass with grade C or
better. Senior standing required. A seminar designed to integrate previous
course work by approaching selected problems from the perspective of
the various behavioral sciences. Preparation of seminar paper. Three
hours of seminar
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
Biology (BIO)
BIO 101.  Success for Biologists.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: CHE 108 is required. This course will introduce concepts
and skills to help students successfully navigate STEM courses and the
biology major. Study skills, resources, careers, and academic mindset
will be discussed. Students will be asked to reflect on their own learning.
Consent required.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 102.  General Biology.  (3 Units)  
Representative topics in modern biology, emphasizing the present state
of knowledge and the major means whereby this knowledge is being
expanded. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 103.  General Biology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 (may be taken concurrently) Laboratory work and
demonstrations in representative areas of modern biology. Emphasizes
scientific methodology. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
182 Biology (BIO)
BIO 120.  Principles of Biology I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 108 or satisfactory performance on General Chemistry
Placement Test. CHE 110 is recommended. Co-requisite: BIO 121.
Introduction to basic biological concepts including biochemistry and
macromolecules, the structure and function of cells, basic genetic
principles, DNA replication, transcription and translation. Three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 121.  Principles of Biology Laboratory I.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 120. Laboratory investigations of the properties of
biological molecules and cells, metabolism, and patterns of inheritance.
Modern laboratory techniques and application of the scientific method
are emphasized. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 122.  Principles of Biology II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 120 and BIO 121, CHE 108 or satisfactory performance
on General Chemistry Placement Test. CHE 110 is recommended. Corequisite: BIO 123. Introduction to basic biological concepts, including
biology of prokaryotes, fungi, plants, invertebrates, and vertebrates, the
anatomy and physiology of select organ systems. Three hours of lecture
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 123.  Principles of Biology Laboratory II.  (1 Units)  
Laboratory investigations demonstrating the major properties of the
animal kingdom, plant structure and reproduction, vertebrate organ
systems and animal fertilization. Application of the scientific method is
emphasized. Three hours of lab per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 124.  Principles of Biology III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 122 and BIO 123. Co-requisite: BIO 125. Introduction
to basic concepts of evolution and ecology, including Darwinian
evolution, biogeography, biodiversity, genomics, biomes, coevolution, and
population, community, ecosystem, landscape, behavioral ecology. Three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 125.  Principles of Biology Lab III.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 124. Fossils and stratigraphy, population genetics
and ecology, field measurements in ecology and field trips to local
ecosystems. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 190.  Introduction to Marine Life.  (3 Units)  
General aspects of marine biology including the principles of physical and
biological oceanography, the biological processes of marine life and the
ecology of marine environments.
Offered As needed
BIO 195.  Special Topics in Biology.  (1-3 Units)  
Introductory course of special interest in Biology for entry level students.
Topic and content will vary as announced. Two to three hours of lecture
per week. Not open for credit toward the Biology major.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 214.  Embryology.  (2 Units)  
Offered All terms
BIO 220.  Molecular Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 120, BIO 121, BIO 122, BIO 123 and CHE 110. Corequisite: BIO 221. Principles of molecular biology including DNA
replication, transcription, translation, DNA recombination and repair and
gene regulation. Emphasis on prokaryotic and eukaryotic systems. Three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
BIO 221.  Molecular Biology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 220. Basic laboratory techniques used in molecular
biology, including DNA recombination, cDNA synthesis, PCR, transfection,
gel electrophoresis, protein purification, immunoblotting. Required
laboratory reports. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 250.  Elem Hum Anat & Physiol.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or equivalent or BIO 120 or equivalent. Basic
principles of anatomical structure and physiological processes of human
organ systems. Not open for credit toward the Biology major. Three hours
of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
BIO 251.  Elem Hum Anatomy Phys Lab.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 250. Laboratory work and demonstration in the
anatomical structure and processes occurring in man. Not open for credit
toward the Biology major. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 254.  Human Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or equivalent. Biological aspects of humans with
emphasis on structure and function of organ systems. Additional topics
may include human origins, diseases, and health aspects of human
genetics and the environment. Not open for credit towards the Biology
major. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 310.  Plant Physiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125. Co-requisite: BIO 311. An introduction
to cell metabolism in plants. Topics include photosynthesis, respiration,
amino acid synthesis and lipid metabolism. Physiology of plants,
including hormones, photoperiodism and circadian rhythms, will also be
covered. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 311.  Plant Physiology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 310. Associated laboratory to BIO 310. Topics include
photosynthesis, respiration, amino acid synthesis and lipid metabolism.
Physiology of plants, including hormones, photoperiodism and circadian
rhythms, will also be covered. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 312.  Animal Physiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125.Â Co-requisite: BIO 313. Introduction
to comparative animal physiology with emphasis on the vertebrates.
Topics include gas exchange, circulatory function, digestion temperature
regulation, metabolism, osmoregulation and excretion. Three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 313.  Animal Physiology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 312. Laboratory work and demonstration of the
principles on how physiological systems work in normal and stressed
conditions. Exercises coordinate with and reinforce material presented in
BIO 312. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 183
BIO 314.  Developmental Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125, and BIO 220 required. Co-requisite:
BIO 315 required. Students will discuss developmental events from
gametogenesis through organogenesis in a variety of animal models.
The cellular and molecular mechanisms controlling development will be
explored. We will also discuss how intrinsic and extrinsic factors can alter
the developmental outcomes, which might lead to developmental defects
and diseases.
Offered Spring
BIO 315.  Developmental Biology Lab.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 314. Laboratory work and examination of the
developmental anatomy in the frog and chick embryos, fertilization and
early development of sea urchin and isolation of chick muscle, organs
and whole embryos. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 320.  Cell Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 220, BIO 221; CHE 310, CHE 311 or CHE 316, CHE 317.
Structure and function of eukaryotic cells with emphasis on the role of
organic macromolecules, mechanisms of energy metabolism, DNA and
protein synthesis, protein sorting, endo- and exocytosis, cell signaling,
cytoskeletal elements, biotechnology and cell research techniques. Three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 324.  Microbiology with Clinical Applications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 122, BIO 123; CHE 300, CHE 301 or CHE 310, 311, or
CHE 316, CHE 317; Corequisite: BIO 325. The morphology, physiology,
genetics and classification of microorganisms; applied aspects of
microbiology. Basic bacteriological techniques included in the laboratory.
Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 325.  Microbiology with Clinical Applications Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 324. Use of basic bacteriological techniques,
including correct use of compound microscope, standard staining for
microorganism identification, routine aseptic inoculations and culturing
microbes. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, All terms
BIO 326.  General Microbiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125, BIO 220, CHE 112 are required. BIO 221,
CHE 310, and CHE 311 are recommended. Co-requisite: BIO 327 is
required. Introduction to the biology of microorganisms. The course
examines microbial structure, metabolism, genetics, and growth, and will
discuss microorganisms in different ecological environments and their
role in pathogenicity. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, All terms
BIO 327.  General Microbiology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125, BIO 220 and CHE 110 are required. CoRequisites: BIO 326 is required. This laboratory course will introduce
microbiology research and testing methods, including establishing
experimental design. Basic techniques are emphasized, such as sterile
techniques, culturing and microscopy. Students will be using methods to
identify unknown microorganisms. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 330.  Botany.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124 and BIO 125 are required. Co-requisite: BIO 331 is
required. An introduction to plant biology. Topics include anatomy and
morphology, the evolution of land plants, and basic ecology. There will be
a special focus on plant reproduction. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered All terms, Fall
BIO 331.  Botany Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 124 and BIO 125 are required. Co-requisite: BIO 330 is
required. Laboratory work to examine plant cells and tissues, diversity of
land plants, and plant ecology. Emphasis includes phylogenetics, floral
evolution, and Southern California ecology. Three hours of laboratory per
week.
Offered Fall
BIO 332.  Ecology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125.Â Co-requisite: BIO 333. Concepts
in ecology including energy flow, biogeochemical cycles, community
structure, succession, and population growth and interaction. Sampling
techniques and use of ecological instrumentation learned in laboratory.
Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 333.  Ecology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 332. Laboratory work demonstrating principles of
ecology, specifically the physical environment, adaptations of individuals,
populations, communities of plants and animals, ecosystem, evolutionary
ecology, biodiversity and biogeography, and interactions of human beings
with the environment. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 336.  Environmental Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or BIO 122 is required. Principles of ecology applied
to contemporary environmental problems. Emphasis is placed upon
human impact in Southern California. One day (18 hour) field trip is
required. Not open for credit toward the Biology major.
Offered Spring
BIO 340.  Genetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125, BIO 220, MAT 131. CHE 310 and CHE 311
or CHE 316 and CHE 317 are recommended. Principles of heredity,
gene expression at the molecular and organismic levels, variation and
mutation. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 342.  Cell And Genetics Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 220 and BIO 221. An introduction to modern techniques
of biological research on cell biomolecules and genetics, with emphasis
on microscopy, protein isolation and characterization, enzyme activity,
electrophoresis of biomolecules, transformation and PCR. Three hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 346.  Human Heredity.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or equivalent. Introduction to human genetics,
including human reproduction. Mendelian inheritance, chemical basis
of gene action, mutation, and eugenics. Not open for credit toward the
Biology major or to students with credit in BIO 340.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 360.  Marine Biology.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the biology of marine life. Includes a review of common
marine organisms and their taxonomic placement. Also includes an
ecological perspective on marine planktonic, nektonic, and benthic
communities with emphasis on the intertidal habitats of Southern
California.
Offered Fall
184 Biology (BIO)
BIO 361.  Marine Biology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 360. The laboratory is devoted to learning the plants and
animals common to each of a variety of local marine habitats. Several
field trips are required. Transportation to field sites is the responsibility of
each student. Three hours of laboratory or field work per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 370.  Bio Basis Human Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or equivalent. Biological structure and function as
it relates to human behavior. Emphasis on the structure of the central
and peripheral nervous systems, sensory systems, neurotransmission,
endocrine system and hormones, genetic influences, neuropharmacology
and the impact of disease on human behavior. Not open for credit toward
the Biology major.
Offered Spring
BIO 374.  Drug Abuse.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 102 or equivalent. Introduction to the problem of drug
abuse. The action of commonly abused drugs on the human nervous
system will be examined including the physiological and behavioral
effects which are produced. Not open for credit toward the Biology major.
Offered Fall, All terms
BIO 380.  Biology of Childhood and Adolescence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 250 or BIO 254. The physiology of growth and
development through the second decade of life; reproductive maturation
and the hormonal regulation of puberty; common illnesses, growth
disorders and health hazards, including a brief introduction to venereal
diseases and drug abuse. Not open for credit toward the Biology major.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
BIO 386.  Human Aging.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 250 or BIO 254. The effects of aging on the structure
and physiology of the human body and the effects of drugs used in the
treatment of the elderly. Not open for credit toward the Biology major.
Offered As needed
BIO 394.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 124, BIO 125. Advanced library, field or laboratory work.
A contract must be signed by the student and supervising faculty. Credit
in this course is contingent upon completion of a written report of work
accomplished. Not more than three units may be applied toward the
Biology major or minor. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 395.  Special Topics In Biology.  (2-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 102 or equivalent or consent of instructor. Courses of
special interest in Biology for students not majoring in the field. Topic and
content will vary as announced. Not open for credit toward the Biology
major. Repeatable course. Two or three hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
BIO 412.  Comparative Vert Biology.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125 and BIO 312, BIO 313. Vertebrate
evolution, classification and ecology and adaptive morphology will be
investigated through observations of behavior, study of fossils, and
comparative anatomy dissections. Three hours of lecture and three hours
of laboratory per week. Several field trips, including one or more weekend
trips required.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 416.  Landscape Ecology.  (3 Units)  
Interrelationships among ecosystems in space and time. How abiotic,
biotic, and historical factors and disturbance combine to shape presentday landscapes. Use of computer technologies, such as remote sensing
and geographic information systems, to study landscape characteristics.
Offered Spring
BIO 419.  Histotechnique Laboratory.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 420. Preparation of normal and abnormal tissues for
microscopic study. Methods of preparation of tissues for sectioning
with paraffin and freezing microtomes. Methods of fixation, dehydration,
infiltration, embedding and sectioning tissues. Application of different
stains on tissues. Six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 420.  Histotechnique.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 122, BIO 123.Â Co-requisite: BIO 419. Preparation of
tissues for microscopic study, with emphasis on paraffin embedding and
staining. Two hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring, All terms
BIO 421.  Advanced Molecular Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 220, BIO 221, BIO 320, BIO 340, BIO 342, CHE 310 and
CHE 311. Recombinant DNA techniques used in the study of genome
organization and gene structure, expression and regulation; emphasis on
eukaryotic cells. One hour of lecture and six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 422.  Histology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 122 and BIO 123 are required. Co-requisite: BIO 424.
Microscopic study of the structure and function of cells and tissues and
their integration into organs. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 423.  Cell Fine Structure.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 320 or BIO 422 and BIO 424. Structure and function of
eucaryotic sub-cellular constituents at the light and electron microscopic
and biochemical level.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
BIO 424.  Histology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 422.Microscopic study of the structure and function
of cells and tissues and their integration into organs. Three hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 425.  Medical Bacteriology.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 324, BIO 325, CHE 310, CHE 311 or CHE 316, CHE 317.
Co-requisite: BIO 435. Characteristics of bacterial agents in human
disease emphasizing host-parasite relationships, epidemiology and
infection control. Two hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 426.  Immunology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 320 or BIO 340; BIO 342 is recommended. Co-requisite:
BIO 436. Principles of immunology. Emphasis on the cellular and
molecular nature of antigens and immunoglobulins; immunobiology;
laboratory immunoassays. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 185
BIO 427.  Clinical Mycology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 324 and BIO 325. BIO 425 and BIO 435 are
recommended. Comparative morphology, physiology and pathogenicity
of medically important fungi. Laboratory methods for identification
emphasize interpretation and evaluation of results including the
recognition of contaminating or opportunistic organisms. Two hours of
lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 428.  Virology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 320, CHE 300, CHE 301 or CHE 310, CHE 311,
or CHE 316, CHE 317. The anatomy, biochemistry, physiology and
pathogenesis of bacterial and animal viruses emphasizing virus diseases
of humans. Topics include structure, classification, theory and practical
aspects of growth, purification and identification, host-virus interactions,
tumor viruses and antiviral agents. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 430.  Comp BIO: Phlogenetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124, BIO 125 and BIO 340. BIO 332 is recommended.
Strategies for rigorous comparisons of different species: Permissions
(legal), collection, identification (diagnosis), taxonomy, maintenancealive and preserved, character state description, phylogenetic analysis
and biogeography. Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per
week.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 435.  Medical Bateriology Laboratory.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 425. Laboratory methods used. Medical bacteriology,
including detection, isolation and identification of medically important
bacteria. Six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 436.  Immunology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 426. Principles of immunology. Emphasis on the cellular
and molecular nature of antigens and immunoglobulins; immunobiology;
laboratory immunoassays. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 440.  Molecular Genetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 320 and BIO 340. Genome structure in relation to
control of gene expression in prokaryotic and eucaryotic cells; interplay
between genes and regulatory reactions that control development. Topics
include antibody diversity, neoplastic transformation by oncogenes, and
pattern formation. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 442.  Human Genetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 320 and BIO 340. BIO 440 is recommended. Principles
of human genetics including cytogenetics, Mendelian inheritance,
pedigree construction, complex patterns of inheritance, biochemical
defects, gene mapping, hemoglobinopathies, molecular genetics, prenatal
diagnosis and gene therapy. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 450.  Evolution.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): BIO 124 and BIO 340 required. Explores how modern
approaches to studying evolution are teaching us new and surprising
things about how evolution works and its power to help explain patterns
in the natural world. This course is a paper-based, discussion-based
course.
Offered Fall
BIO 452.  Minority Health Disparities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 220 is required. BIO 320 is recommended. This course
deals with the issue of minority health disparities from the many possible
courses and treatments to ways to address this problem in the future.
Offered Spring
BIO 453.  Endocrinology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 220 is required. The role of endocrine glands and
tissues in metabolic regulation, environmental adjustment, reproduction,
and development of vertebrates, with emphasis on mammals. Three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 458.  Human Parasitology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 122 and BIO 123. Co-requisite: BIO 459. Physiological
aspects of parasites in man, their symbiotic host and parasite
relationships and clinical diagnostic techniques. Three hours of lecture
per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 459.  Human Parasitology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: BIO 458. Physiological aspects of parasites in man, their
symbiotic host and parasite relationships and clinical diagnostic
techniques. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 483.  Human Physiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 312 or BIO 320. Advanced lecture and discussion of
the functional activities occurring in the human organ systems.
Offered Spring
BIO 490.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and department consent; completion of
general education requirements, lower division major requirements and
BIO 340. Students will engage in biological writing for diverse audiences
including writing for other biologists and the general public. Synthesis of
biological literature, data presentation, and the importance of biology to
society will be addressed. A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the
GWAR requirement for all Biology majors and minors.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
BIO 491.  Seminar in Biological and Biomedical Research.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Permission by professor. Current topics in biological
and biomedical research presented by CSUDH faculty and prominent
scientists from throughout the country. CR/NC grading. Repeatable for up
to 2 units.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 495.  Selected Topics in Biology.  (2-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 124 and BIO 125. Advanced course of special interest
for students majoring in Biology. May include laboratory exercises. Topic
and content will vary as announced. Repeatable course. Two to three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
BIO 496.  Internship in Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124 and BIO 125 are required. BIO 332 and BIO 333 are
recommended. This course is available as an elective in the BS in Biology:
Ecology and Environmental Biology option only. Supervised internship in
ecological setting off campus. A maximum of three units may be applied
towards the Biology major.
Offered Fall, Spring
186 Biophysics (BPH)
BIO 498.  Directed Research in Biology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124 and BIO 125 are required. BIO 332 and BIO 333 are
recommended. This course is available as an elective in the BS in Biology:
Ecology and Environmental Biology option only. The class is intended to
allow students to receive ecological research experience off-campus. A
maximum of three units may be applied towards the Biology major.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 501.  Biological Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Fulfillment of the Graduation Writing Requirement (GWAR).
Standard forms of presentation of scientific research, including research
articles, review papers, abstracts, poster and oral presentations. Sources
of biological literature and contemporary literature search skills as well
as data presentation formats and technical writing conventions will be
addressed. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
BIO 502.  Biostatistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131 or MAT 171 or MAT 191 or equivalent. Application
of statistical analyses to biological research with emphasis on
experimental design. Analysis of variance, regression and correlation will
be the primary topics. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 503.  Biological Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the operation and application of common instruments
used in biological research. Emphasis on those instruments available
for graduate research. Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 504.  Research Techniques in Biology.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to how research is conducted and how to avoid the major
pitfalls that can beset researchers. Ethical conduct of research, permits
and permissions, important laboratory and field techniques, preparation
for a PhD program. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 510.  Urban Environmental Science.  (3 Units)  
Overview of environmental science. Problems specific to urban context.
Pollution of air, water, etc., land-use change, environmental conflicts.
Hands-on analysis of environmental conditions in Los Angeles area.
Offered Spring
BIO 516.  Landscape Ecology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 124 and BIO 125 are required. BIO 332 and BIO 333 are
recommended. Interrelationships among ecosystems in space and time.
How abiotic, biotic, and historical factors and disturbance combine to
shape present-day landscapes. Use of computer technologies, such as
remote sensing and geographic information systems, to study landscape
characteristics. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
BIO 520.  Adv In Cell & Molecul Bio.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 421 or BIO 440. Current developments in the structure
and function of viruses, prokaryotic cells, and eukaryotic cells. Three
hours of lecture per week. Repeatable for credit in biology master's
program for up to six units.
Offered Spring
BIO 522.  Applied Biotechnology Skills III.  (3 Units)  
PABS Skills III is a graduate course for students in the PSM program. In
this course, students will learn advanced molecular biology techniques
including isolation of DNA and RNA, Southern and Northern blots,
transcriptional profiling, and siRNA mediated gene silencing.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 523.  Electron Microscopy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 421. Theory and use of the electron microscopy
preparation of tissue and photographic techniques. One hour of lecture
and six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
BIO 590.  Graduate Seminar.  (2 Units)  
Presentation and discussion of selected topics in Biological Science. A
minimum of two and a maximum of four units may be applied toward
the biology master's degree. The repeated courses must be taught by
different instructors or must be on different topics. Two hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 595.  Grad Sel Topics Biology.  (2-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Department Chair. Advanced course of special
interest to graduate students in Biology. Topic and content will vary as
announced. Repeatable course. Two to three hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
BIO 597.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Library research on a specific subject in biology. Topic for study to be
approved and directed by instructor. Can be used to prepare for the
comprehensive examinations or to formulate a research problem prior
to enrollment in BIO 598 or BIO 599. A maximum of three units may be
applied toward the master's degree. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 598.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Laboratory research on a specific subject in biology. Topic of research to
be approved and directed by an instructor. A maximum of three units may
be applied toward the master's degree. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 599.  Thesis.  (1-4 Units)  
Laboratory research and writing of thesis for the master's degree. Topic
of research to be approved by graduate advisor. A maximum of 9 units
of BIO 597, 598 and 599 combined may be applied toward the master's
degree. Open only to thesis option graduate students. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
BIO 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not their
thesis, project, or comprehensive examinations, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Biophysics (BPH)
BPH 201.  Seminar I: Introduction to Biophysics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 120. Course is designed to inform students about the
field of biophysics, its career applications, and college success. Students
will understand how physics can be integrated into biology and explore
basic computational tools through a tutorial approach.
Offered Fall
BPH 202.  SeminarII: The Art of Scientific Presentation and The Frontiers
of Physics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BPH 201, PHY 120 are required or consent of
instructor.Students learn how to prepare and give presentations on
their research interests or discipline topics. Emphasis is given to the
preparation, execution, and critique of effective scientific presentations.
Offered Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 187
BPH 330.  Biological Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 122, BPH 202, PHY 306 and CHE 310 are required.
Introduction to the interface between biology and physics, applying the
results of thermodynamics to topics such as protein folding, molecular
machines, brain function, with a focus on molecular and cellular biology.
Offered Fall
BPH 340.  Experimental Biophysics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BPH 202, BIO 122, CHE 310 and PHY 306 are required.
Co requisite: PHY 346 is required. A laboratory course introducing
interdisciplinary research techniques and research writing in biophysics.
Basic concepts behind commonly used biological techniques and how to
collect and communicate discipline-specific data.
Offered Spring
BPH 402.  BIOPHYSICS RESEARCH.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 306, BPH 340, or faculty permission. An independent
research project, supervised by a faculty mentor in the physics or
biophysics department.
BPH 406.  Computational Biophysics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 306, BPH 330, BPH 340. An introduction to scientific
computational methods and their application in physics, using various
numerical and symbolic computing techniques.
BPH 410.  Medical Biophysical Education and Medical Industry Impact on
Society.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BPH 201, BPH 202, BPH 340. This course will help students
meet the criteria for professional schools. The students will practice
professional communication skills through healthcare practices. The
course¿s service-learning component requires shadowing of healthcare
professionals for eight weeks and completing thirty volunteer hours with
community organizations.
BPH 460.  Advanced Microscopy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 306, PHY 320, BPH 330, BPH 340. An introduction to
the use of quantitative fluorescence microscopy procedures in modern
biophysics laboratories.
Business (BUS)
BUS 100.  Entrepreneurship For Everyone.  (3 Units)  
Covers key issues involving entrepreneurship. Including how to write a
business plan the will document your business ideas, developing a deal
to finance your plan and developing a pitch to sell your plan to investors
or partners.
Offered Infrequent
BUS 300.  Business Communications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Introduces the Business Administration student to effective
business communication tools and techniques. Includes all standard
forms of contemporary business communication, both written and
oral. Students will have weekly written and/or oral assignments with
appropriate feedback. A-C/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
BUS 301.  Employment Communications.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 109, ENG 110 or ENG 112 is required. Introduces
tools and techniques that are used to produce effective business
communication, both oral and written. Students will learn specific
skills that can be used in the business world to convey thoughts, ideas
and recommendations to coworkers and superiors, while enhancing
professional image and chances for future success. Emphasis will be
placed on the job packet: resumes, cover letters, references and thank
you letters.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BUS 302.  Written Communications.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 109, ENG 110 or ENG 112 is required. Introduces
tools and techniques that are used to produce effective business
communication, both oral and written. Students will learn specific
skills that can be used in the business world to convey thoughts, ideas
and recommendations to coworkers and superiors, while enhancing
professional image and chances for future success. Emphasis will
be placed on drafting, revising and polishing professional business
documents.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BUS 303.  Oral Communication.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 109, ENG 110 or ENG 112 is required. Introduces
tools and techniques that are used to produce effective business
communication, both oral and written. Students will learn specific
skills that can be used in the business world to convey thoughts, ideas
and recommendations to coworkers and superiors, while enhancing
professional image and chances for future success. Emphasis will be
placed on oral communication skills.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BUS 445.  International Business.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: FIN 360, MGT 310 and MKT 350. Focused study in
international business with an emphasis on the additional risks,
uncertainties and difficulties of business conducted across national
boundaries; students will use disciplinary writing to produce case studies
and written reports to analyze and examine the financial, management,
legal accounting and marketing areas. A grade of C or better in this
course fulfills the GWAR requirement for Business Majors and Minors.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BUS 494.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor and of the business
administration advisement coordinator. Independent research or other
study under the direction of a full-time faculty member of the Business
Administration Program. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
BUS 495.  Special Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of the instructor. Advanced seminar on a topic of
current interest to the discipline of business administration. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed, All terms
BUS 496.  Business Internship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division status and consent of Internship
Coordinator. Under direction of the Internship Coordinator, students work
in a business organization applying skills and knowledge learned in the
classroom. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
BUS 594.  Independent Study In Bus.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor and MBA program coordinator.
Independent research or special projects under the direction of a full-time
faculty member of the master of business administration program. CR/
NC grading. NOTE: Cannot substitute for a required course or elective.
Offered Infrequent
BUS 595.  Selected Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of core courses. A variable topics course in
a functional area of business administration or of special interest to
business management. New topics will be offered each term. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
188 Chemistry (CHE)
BUS 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of graduate program coordinator required.
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis project or comprehensive examinations or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
Chemistry (CHE)
CHE 102.  Chemistry For The Citizen.  (3 Units)  
A non-mathematical treatment of the basic principles of chemistry and
their application to various facets of life in a highly technological society.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
CHE 103.  Chemistry Lab for the Global Citizen.  (1 Units)  
Recommended general education course for students interested in the
chemistry of everyday life. Includes determining the composition of foods
and drugs, measurements, unit conversions, scientific notation, chemical
representations, mole concept, structure of atoms and molecules. Three
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 108.  Introduction to College Chemistry.  (5 Units)  
Measurements, units, unit conversion, scientific notation, chemical
stoichiometry, mole concept, structure of atoms and molecules. CR/NC
grading. Three hours of lecture and six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
CHE 110.  General Chemistry I.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 108 or high school chemistry and satisfactory
performance on the General Chemistry Placement test. Chemical
stoichiometry, atomic structure, periodic table, quantum theory, gases,
thermochemistry, ionic bonding, Lewis formulas, liquids, solids, solutions.
Four hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
CHE 112.  General Chemistry II.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 110. Chemical kinetics, equilibria, thermodynamics,
acids and bases, solubility, electrochemistry, covalent bonding, transition
metal complexes. Four hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
CHE 230.  Quantitative Analysis.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 112. Introduction to the techniques and theory of
gravimetric and volumetric analyses, colorimetry, flame photometry
and electroanalytical procedures. Two hours of lecture and six hours of
laboratory per week. Laboratory fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 300.  Organic Chemistry I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 112 or 1 year of general chemistry. A detailed study of
organic molecular structure, reaction mechanisms stereochemistry, and
synthesis with emphasis on a aliphatic and aromatic systems.
Offered Summer
CHE 301.  Organic Chemistry Lab I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112 or 1 year of general chemistry; concurrent
enrollment in CHE 300. Basic experimental techniques of organic
chemistry. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Summer
CHE 302.  Organic Chemistry II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 300 and CHE 301. Concurrent enrollment in CHE 303.
Continuation of CHE 300 with emphasis on the chemistry of organic
compounds containing oxygen and nitrogen.
Offered Summer
CHE 303.  Organic Chemistry Lab II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112 or 1 year of general chemistry; concurrent
enrollment in CHE 302. Preparation of organic compounds and qualitative
organic analysis. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Summer
CHE 310.  Organic Chemistry I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112; concurrent enrollment in CHE 311. Systematic
study of organic compounds, with emphasis on molecular structure and
reaction mechanisms; stereochemistry; aliphatic compounds.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 311.  Organic Chemistry Lab I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in CHE 310. Techniques of separation
and purification of organic compounds. Introduction to organic synthesis.
Three hours of laboratory per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 312.  Organic Chemistry II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 310, CHE 311; concurrent enrollment in CHE 313.
A continuation of CHE 310 with emphasis on aromatic systems.
Introduction to spectroscopy. Structures and reactions of organic
compounds containing oxygen and nitrogen.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 313.  Organic Chemistry Laboratory II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 310, CHE 311; concurrent enrollment in CHE 312.
Organic synthesis, introduction to spectros copy. Qualitative organic
analysis. Six hours of laboratory per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 316.  Survey of Organic Chemistry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 112 and concurrent enrollment in CHE 317. Structure
and properties of aliphatic and aromatic compounds. Stereochemistry
and functional group chemistry. Oriented toward life sciences and related
areas.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 317.  Survey of Organic Chemistry Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: CHE 316. Basic purification processes and techniques of
separation of mixtures. Preparation of organic compounds. Introduction
to qualitative and quantitative analytical methods, including chemical,
chromatographic, and spectroscopic procedures. Three hours of
laboratory per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 320.  Physical Chemistry I.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112 and CHE 230; MAT 193; PHY 132. PHY 122
may be substituted for PHY 132 by students in the biochemistry option
and by non-chemistry majors, with consent of instructor. Principles
and applications of classical thermodynamics and chemical kinetics.
Introduction to computer based techniques of treating scientific data.
Offered Fall
CHE 322.  Physical Chemistry II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 320.Introduction to group theory, quantum chemistry,
spectroscopy and statistical thermodynamics.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 189
CHE 360.  Writing in Chemical Sciences.  (2 Units)  
Perquisites: CHE 310 or concurrent enrollment required. Extensive
practice in written chemistry communication, emphasizing effective
communication of scientific data to a wide variety of audiences.
Extensive practice in writing chemistry reports and summaries, preparing
career related documents, searching and evaluating chemical literature.
A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all
Chemistry and Biochemistry majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 393.  Supervised Projects.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112 and consent of instructor. Laboratory projects
to be carried out under the supervision of a chemistry faculty member.
Designed for students of sophomore and junior standing. A-C/NC
grading. Repeatable course. Three to nine hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 420.  Advanced Applic for Chemistry.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 320. Advanced applications for chemistry including
computational techniques, molecular modeling, combinatorial
approaches to synthesis, data acquisition and analysis, and use of
computers to simulate spectral data. One hour of lecture and two hours
of activity per week.
Offered Spring
CHE 431.  Adv Integrated Lab I Lec.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 230 and CHE 320. Experimental work involving
instrumental analytical techniques, inorganic syntheses, physical
measurements on chemical systems. Analysis of experimental data,
including the use of computer techniques. One hour of lecture and six
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
CHE 433.  Adv Integrated Lab II Lec.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 431 and CHE 322. A continuation of CHE 431. One
hour of lecture and six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
CHE 440.  Inorganic Chemistry.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 322. Structural inorganic chemistry, coordination
compounds, mechanisms of inorganic reactions, inorganic synthetic
methods. Organometallic chemistry, catalysis.
Offered Spring
CHE 450.  Biochemistry I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 230, CHE 312 and CHE 313, or CHE 316 and CHE 317,
and concurrent enrollment in CHE 451. The chemistry of amino acids
and proteins; the chemistry and metabolism of carbohydrates and lipids;
energetics in living systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 451.  Biochemistry I Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 230, CHE 312, and CHE 313, or CHE 316 and CHE 317,
and concurrent enrollment in CHE 450. Biochemistry laboratory
experiments using advanced techniques for separation and analysis of
biologically active compounds. Three hours of laboratory per week. Fee
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 452.  Biochemistry II.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHE 450. Metabolism of nitrogenous compounds,
discussion of nucleic acid structure/function and metabolic control.
Offered Spring
CHE 453.  Biochemistry II Lab.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 451 and concurrent enrollment in CHE 452.
Biochemistry experiments using advanced techniques for the isolation
and purification of macromolecules, and for determination of their activity
or function. Six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
CHE 456.  Clinical Chemistry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 450 and CHE 451. Methods of analysis of body fluids
and tissues. Relation of analytical results to interpretation of metabolism
and diagnosis of disease. Three hours of lecture and three hours of
laboratory per week. Laboratory fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 458.  Toxicology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 450 is required; CHE 452 is recommended. Discussion
of methods of introduction of toxic substances into the body, their
metabolic transformations, and their biochemical and physiological
effects. Examples drawn from forensic, clinical, occupational, and
environmental sources.
Offered Infrequent
CHE 460.  Chemical Literature.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 312 and CHE 320. Chemical literature, including the
nature, content, and accessibility. Modern electronic search and retrieval
techniques. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
CHE 474.  Geochemistry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CHE 112 is required; EAR 356 is recommended. Factors
controlling the distribution of the chemical elements in the earth,
atmosphere and oceans. Methods in the analysis of minerals. Special
consideration of economically important metals. Applications in earth
sciences, chemistry, and environmental studies. Two hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
CHE 495.  Selected Topics in Chemistry.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Lectures on a specific area of current
interest in chemistry, or advanced discussion of a selected topic in a
limited field of chemistry. Repeatable course. One to three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHE 497.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and consent of instructor. Advanced
laboratory work, with each student undertaking an independent and
original investigation. A-C/NC grading. Repeatable course. Three or nine
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
Chicano/Chicana Studies (CHS)
CHS 100.  Chicana/o Cultural Roots.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to Chicana/o cultural traditions influenced by diverse
Mexican Indian, African, and European experiences and histories prior to,
during and after the conquest of Americas. Special focus is on Mexico
and the Southwest of the United States.
Offered Fall, Spring
190 Chicano/Chicana Studies (CHS)
CHS 125.  Chicano/Latino Musical Culture.  (3 Units)  
The course examines musical expressions of Chicano and Latino peoples
in the present geographical boundaries of the United States. The course
emphasizes the intercultural dynamics in the formation of Chicano and
Latino music which incorporates African, American, Native American, and
European roots.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 195.  Special Topics in Chicana/o Studies.  (3 Units)  
A study of an issue, concept or theme in Chicana/Chicano Studies. Three
hours of lecture per week. Repeatable for a maximum of twelve units for
credit.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 200.  Introduction to Chicana/o and Latina/o History.  (3 Units)  
Explores the history and experiences of Chicanos/as and Latinos/as
in the United States in the 19th and 20th Centuries and will explore the
following themes: immigration, migration, labor, education, gender roles,
and community organizations.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 205.  Introduction to Chicana/o Literature.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to selected works of modern Chicano literature including
an analysis of influences, themes, and techniques. Special attention
given to certain issues of the Chicano/a experiences reflected in the
literature. Frequent written assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 210.  Representation of Indigenous.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the different forms on indigenous representation with
special emphasis on Mesoamerica. Discussions of how these accounts
are expressed, perceived, and constructed at the point of European
contact will be examined.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 212.  Introduction to Comparative Ethnic Studies.  (3 Units)  
The course will explore the lived experiences and gendered complexities
of Ethnic/Global communities as they relate to historical and
contemporary international and global forces. The course will
examine the economic and socio-cultural dynamics of the global
interdependencies of Indigenous, Latino, Asian-Pacific and Africana
communities and women's lived experiences within and across these
communities.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 216.  Mexica Language and Culture.  (3 Units)  
Supervised work experience in a Chicano/Latino community with
emphasis upon social and economic development in a local, national, or
international setting. Students will be placed in settings suitable to their
academic expertise.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 225.  Mexican & Chicano Poetry & Mus.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to Mexican/Chicano poetry and music from the Spanish
Conquest to the present. Students will learn to recognize boleros, sones,
huapangos, mariachi, norteno, corridos, Tex-Mex, and oldies. The class is
not designed for music majors.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 295.  Spc Topics Chicana/o Stud.  (3 Units)  
A study of an issue, concept, or theme in Chicana/Chicano studies.
Repeatable for a maximum of six units for credit.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 300.  Critical Issues in Chicana/Chicano Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 110 or equivalent are required. CHS 100 or CHS 205
and CHS 200 or 212 are recommended. An exploration of the field of
Chicana and Chicano Studies. Course will emphasize the changing
constructions and interpretations of what comprises Chicana/o
identities and cultures through an analysis of cultural, historical, political,
psychological, and social issues. Enrollment priority will be given to
Chicana/Chicano Studies majors and minors. This course fulfills a
requirement in the Chicana/Chicano Studies major and minor, in addition
to the GWAR.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 315.  Changing Dynamics in Raza Comm.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHS 200 is recommended. Assesses the challenges
confronting the Chicano community resulting from increased and diverse
patterns of immigration, restricted occupational opportunities, and sociopolitical differences. Focus will be on urban issues from communities
throughout the United States , including the Mexican/United States
Border.
Offered Spring
CHS 323.  Latina/o Perspectives on U.S. Immigration and Citizenship.  (3
Units)  
Seeks to understand some of the issues which concern Mexican/Latino
immigrant people, specifically Mexican and Central American groups, in
efforts to bring awareness to this human crisis and to explore some of its
effects on U.S. Latino community.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CHS 325.  Chicana/o Movement.  (3 Units)  
A historical and comparative examination of the Chicana/o movement by
examining the early pattern of Mexican immigration and the formation of
mutual aids associations designed to defend their interests. The focus is
on the period from 1960-1990.
Offered Spring
CHS 330.  Latina/o Identities in U.S..  (3 Units)  
Explores the social, cultural, and political experiences of Chincao/a
and Latino/a communities in the Unite States, including Puerto Rian,
Caribbean, and Central and South American peoples. The historical
experiences of these diverse communities will be examined.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CHS 335.  Urban Youth Gangs in Los Angeles.  (3 Units)  
Provides an interdisciplinary perspective to the origins and evolution of
youth groups (African Americans, Anglos, Asians, Chicana/os, and Pacific
Islanders) in California. Class topics include definition of gangs; history of
gangs; membership practices; and law enforcement responses.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 340.  Native American and Chicana Women's Narrative.  (3 Units)  
Course explores contemporary cultural and historical narratives by and
about Native American Chicana women in the U.S. Through poetry, short
stories, and narratives the class will analyze the histories of colonial
exploitation, historical memories, gender oppression, and marginalization.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 344.  Chicana/o History I.  (3 Units)  
Mexican American life to 1900, stressing the evolution of economic and
political thought, social institutions, and cultural experiences.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 191
CHS 345.  Latina/o Identities in the Americas.  (3 Units)  
Explores the concept of Latina/o identity in the Americas from a literary
perspective in different time periods and particular cultural societies. The
study of certain intellectuals and their literary contributions will assist
with comprehension of identity and socio-political reality.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CHS 346.  Chicana/o History II.  (3 Units)  
The Mexican American's contributions to the building of the Southwest;
the clash between Mexicans and North Americans; the emergence of the
urban Mexican American.
Offered Spring
CHS 372.  Chicana/o Spiritualities ad Healing Practices.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the diverse spiritual practices and decolonial methods of
healing found in Mexican and Chicana/o/x traditions.
Offered All terms
CHS 375.  Chicana/o Latina/o Body Politics.  (3 Units)  
Recommended Prerequisites: CHS 100, CHS 200, CHS 205, and CHS 212.
An exploration of the interconnections between the physical body and
politics, both current and historical, for Chicana/os and Latina/os.
Students will examine issues such as public health, reproductive justice,
ability, gender, and sexuality in Chicana/o Latina/o communities.
Offered All terms
CHS 395.  Special Topics in Chicana/o Studies.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of special topic of interest for
students in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as
announced.
Offered As needed
CHS 396.  Practicum in Chicana/o Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Department Chair. This course is an introduction
to theorists and methods under girding Chicana and Chicano Studies as
these have been deployed in the writings by Chicana and Chicano authors
during the past thirty years. The class will present theories and methods
that inform intellectual issues in Chicana/o studies.
Offered As needed
CHS 400.  Chicana/o Issues in Education.  (3 Units)  
An overview of the educational system in society - how it functions,
whom it serves, and the cultural and theoretical explanations for the
success and failure of Chicana/o students. Discussions include family
values, teen pregnancy, language, gangs, etc.
Offered Fall
CHS 401.  Theories and Methods in Chicana/o Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 110 or equivalent; CHS 100 or CHS 205 and CHS 200
or CHS 212 or equivalent are required. Must be a Senior. Focuses on
examining the various theories and methods utilized by Chicana/o
scholars during the evolution of the discipline of Chicana/o Studies,
exploring how these theories and methods have informed and continue to
inform writing and research in Chicana/o Studies.
Offered Fall
CHS 410.  Chicana/o Popular Culture.  (3 Units)  
An overview of the central areas of Chicana/o popular culture, focusing
on film, mass media, art, theatre, and music. The course examines how
concepts of culture, identity, and ethnicity are popularly expressed in a
constant state of flux.
Offered Fall
CHS 436.  Chicana/o Latina/o Politics.  (3 Units)  
Recommended Prerequisites: CHS 200 and CHS 323 Course examines
the role of Chicana/o and Latina/o communities in shaping state and
national politics in the United States, including contemporary modes
of political organizations, political history, organizational strategies,
electoral impact, public policy issues surrounding citizenship, and
empowerment strategies.
Offered All terms
CHS 450.  Precolumbian Lit of Mexico.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHS 300 recommended. The study of the literature of
ancient Mexico , specifically the PopolVuh of the Maya and Aztec poetry,
in order to obtain an insight into the Precolombian world view. Periodic
essay exams.
Offered Infrequent
CHS 460.  Las Chicanas.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 or equivalent is required. The study of the issues
that Chicanas encounter in contemporary U.S. society. Includes a survey
of remote and recent cultural, social, and political issues that have
influenced the values, expectations, and roles of Chicanas.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 471.  Mexican Thought, Social Activism and Political Ideology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: CHS 100 is recommended. Examines the evolution of
Mexico's modernistic state via its reformation and dictatorship of
President Porfirio Diaz. It will investigate how revolutionary leaders
banded together to dismantle the Porfirio regime, and how later Mexico's
Government attempted to institutionalize the ideals of justice, freedom,
and democracy.
Offered Fall
CHS 480.  Chicana/o Folklore.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHS 300 recommended. An introduction to some of the
basic theories and techniques in folklore studies, especially Mexican
American. Folk art, music, oral literature, customs, philosophy, and belief
systems will be examined for understanding groups of people.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 486.  Chicana/o Family and Gender Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 or equivalent is required. CHS lower division
requirements or courses on previous women and gender are
recommended. The course examines family and gender issues as they
relate to the Chicana/o community in the United States. Topics will
include Chicana/o family roles and structure, cultural values, experiences
that influence and challenge families, gender roles and expectations.
Offered Fall
CHS 490.  Senior Seminar in Chicana/o Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 110 and CHS 401 are required. CHS 100 or CHS 205;
CHS 200 or CHS 212; and CHS 300 are recommended. Seminar where
students examine a particular topic or theme in the field of Chicana/
o Studies. As the capstone course for the major, students undertake a
major research paper.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Program Director. Independent study of a
particular topic in Chicana/Chicano Studies relating two or more
disciplines, such as anthropology, art, education, history, language, music,
politics, psychology, or sociology under the direction of an instructor in
Chicana/Chicano Studies. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
192 Child Development (CDV)
CHS 495.  Spec Topic Chicano/Chicana St.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Program Director. An intensive study of an issue,
concept or theme in Chicana/Chicano Studies. Three hours of lecture per
week. Repeatable for a maximum of six units for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 496.  Internship Chicana/o Studies.  (3 Units)  
Under direction of the internship faculty, students will work in a Chicano/
Latino community, applying skills and knowledge learned in the
classroom as well as the workplace. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
CHS 497.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CHS 100 is recommended. Extensive reading in selected
areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Offered Fall, Spring
CHS 498.  Directed Research in CHS.  (1-3 Units)  
The student develops and completes an individual study under faculty
supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
CHS 590.  Grad Sem Theory & Methods.  (3 Units)  
Instruction in the basic principles of still photography. Two hours of
lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered As needed
CHS 594.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of Department Chair. Independent investigation
of a research problem or directed readings in a selected area of Chicano
Studies.
Offered As needed
CHS 595.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
An intensive study of a concept, movement, school of thought, or
individual within the discipline of Chicano Studies. Intended for students
with senior or graduate standing. Specific topic listed in Class Schedule.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
CHS 596.  Pract. in Teach Chicana/o Stud.  (1-4 Units)  
Supervised experience in teaching Chicana/o Studies. Techniques and
skills appropriate to instruction at the college level. Instructional and
evaluative experiences under supervision of Chicana/o Studies faculty.
Offered As needed
CHS 597.  Directed Reading.  (1-4 Units)  
Extensive reading in selected areas under the guidance of a faculty
mentor.
Offered As needed
CHS 598.  Graduate Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent research under direction of supervising faculty member in
Chicana/o Studies.
Offered As needed
CHS 599.  Final Project.  (3 Units)  
In consultation with a faculty member, writing of a master's thesis or
completion of project. Choice of area requires prior consent of advisor.
Offered As needed
Child Development (CDV)
CDV 150.  Intro Child Development.  (3 Units)  
Overview of physical, cognitive, social and emotional development from
conception through the end of adolescence; theoretical advances in child
development; individual and contextual contribution to developmental
processes.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 180.  Introduction to Observation and Assessment.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 150 required. Overview of and introduction to methods
of studying children; the basic research paradigm; observational
methods; ethical issues in the study of children; generation and
interpretation of data. 1 unit of observations of children in different
settings. Department consent required.
Offered Fall
CDV 225.  Infant Development - FROZEN.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Live Scan and current negative TB documentation.
CDV 180. Development from conception through 2 years; changes
through prenatal period; birth; development of attachment; infant care
issues. 3 hours of lecture, 1 unit of observation in infant-care settings.
Offered Infrequent
CDV 240.  Early Childhood Development and Curriculum.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 150. Examines developmentally appropriate
curriculum and teaching strategies from 2 to 6 years of age. Connections
between curriculum and children's physical, cognitive, social and
emotional development are examined. Includes 1 unit of curriculum
development activities.
Offered Spring
CDV 295.  Special Topics in Child Development.  (1-5 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 150 is required. Contemporary topics of interest in Child
Development.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 320.  Mthd & Analysis in Child Study.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites:CDV 150 and MAT 131 or MAT 132 or PSY 230 are required.
Junior Standing is recommended. Various methods used to study
children; quantitative and qualitative data; measurement issues; basic
data analytic techniques. 3 hours lecture, 1 hour lab. A grade of C or
better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for Child Development
majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 325.  Infancy and Early Childhood.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 150 is required. Provides an overview of physical,
cognitive, social and emotional development from conception through 6
years.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 330.  Schoolage Years.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 150 is required. Physical, cognitive, social and
emotional development from 6 to 12 years. Emphasis on home, school,
and community contexts and their interconnections; developmental
analysis related to contemporary issues in areas of health and education.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 342.  Advanced Observation and Assessment in Early Childhood.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 180 and CDV 240 are required. Observation and
assessment methods in early childhood and their significance in guiding
development and designing programs for children birth through 8 years.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 193
CDV 344.  Supervision in Early Childhood Settings.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 180, CDV 240 and CDV 325 are required. Provides
students with the methods and principles of supervising teachers,
volunteers, student teachers, staff and other adults in early childhood
education settings. An emphasis is placed on the development and role
of early childhood professionals as mentors and leaders.
Offered Fall
CDV 360.  Adolescence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 150 is required. Physical, cognitive, social and
emotional development from 12 to 20 years, focusing on developmentally
unique changes at individual, interpersonal and social levels.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 363.  Development in Diverse Contexts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320 CDV 325, CDV 330 and CDV 360. The development
of the individual identity along multiple dimensions of age, gender
and abilities in the contexts of class, culture, and ethnicity. Issues of
hierarchies, the development of prejudice and discrimination at individual
and institutional levels.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 366.  Parenting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330, and CDV 360 are required. The
development of the parent-child relationship from birth through young
adulthood. Changes in attachment, intimacy and distance; changing
demands of parenting with developmental changes in children, parents
and the family.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 370.  Enhancing Early Language and Literacy I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Jumpstart Corp member and department consent. Examines
early language, literacy, and multi-lingual development with an emphasis
on environmental factors. Provides techniques for engaging children in
language and literacy activities and opportunities for students to evaluate
and reflect on their civic engagement. Course open to Jumpstart Corps
members only. Department consent required.
Offered Spring
CDV 372.  Scl Devpt Intrpsnl Reltns.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 225, CDV 240, CDV 330 and CDV 360. Study of
social and emotional development from birth through adolescence;
development of the self; temperament and emotion; attachment, peer,
parent-child, and early romantic relationships; interpersonal skills and
moral development.
Offered Infrequent
CDV 380.  Stress, Risk, & Resilience.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330 and CDV 360 are required.
Childhood stress is examined within a risk and resilience framework.
Concepts and theories explaining developmental risk and the protective
factors and intervention strategies that promote adaptive coping and
adjustment in various contexts will be discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 423.  Chld Devpt Scl Policy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite:CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330, CDV 360, CDV 380 are required.
Enduring issues related to children's development that have led to policy
decisions; process of policy making; current issues that require policy
decisions; evaluating the impact of policy on children and families.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 440.  Immigrant Children and Families.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330 and CDV 360 are required. The
process of immigration as an influential factor in development; changing
ecologies and adaptation demands on individuals and families; informal
and formal support structures.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 442.  Marriage, Family, and Community.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 320, CDV 325 and CDV 330 and CDV 360 are required.
Examines family structure, love, mate selection, marital communication,
divorce, remarriage, gender roles, and domestic violence across diverse
contexts with a special focus on the factors that enhance healthy family
relationships and children's development.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 444.  Language, Cognition, and Schooling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330, and CDV 360 Theoretical
and empirical overview of cognitive and language development from
birth through the end of adolescence; second language acquisition;
interconnections between cognitive development, language development
and schooling.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 450.  Devpt in Poverty.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320, CDV 325, CDV 330, and CDV 360 Poverty as a
unique context of development; developmental processes and child
outcomes in poverty; family interactions and generation of coping
mechanisms in the context of poverty; special needs of poor children
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 490.  Senior Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: 2.75 GPA, senior level standing, and department consent.
Integration of knowledge about theories, empirical findings and practice
in Child Development; emphasis on writing and presentation skills.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 492.  Seminar in Child Development Research.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Grade of B or better in CDV 320; 2.75 GPA and department
concent are required. Provides students an opportunity to integrate
knowledge about theories, empirical findings and research practices
in child development. Students learn and apply research methods.
An emphasis is placed on writing and presenting research reports for
academic or non-academic audiences.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 494.  Independent Study.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Investigation of a single topic,
chosen in consultation with a faculty member, culminating in a paper,
presentation, or project. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
CDV 495.  Special Topics.  (1-5 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division standing. Contemporary topics of interest in
Child Development. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
CDV 496.  Directed Field Experience.  (4 Units)  
Pre-requisite: Upper Division Standing, Department approval required.
Must take Seminar and Supervision. Faculty supervised experience in
any approved Child Development setting. Weekly seminar designed to
facilitate the integration of Child Development knowledge and theory
with students' fieldwork experience. students will examine and integrate
personal and professional goals and values to gain an understanding of
the self in a professional role. Each seminar provides an opportunity to
share field experiences and problem solve.
Offered Fall, Spring
194 Clinical Science (CLS)
CDV 498.  Directed Research.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: CDV 320 and consent of instructor are required. Project
selected in consultation with a faculty supervisor and a plan made to
implement the project; meetings held regularly. May be repeated to a
maximum of 6 units.
Offered Fall, Spring
Clinical Science (CLS)
CLS 301.  Intro Clin Lab Proced Lec.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 122 required. Demonstration and practice of specialized
techniques used in the clinical setting. Theory of arterial, capillary and
venipuncture including complications. Processing body fluids. Review of
state/federal laws, biohazards and quality assurance. Oral and/or written
reports/projects.
Offered Fall, Spring
CLS 302.  Clinical Practice Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 122; CLS 301 or concurrent enrollment required.
Practice in clinical laboratory techniques: phlebotomy; serum, plasma
and whole blood preparation for testing; Minimum 90 hours training at a
clinical affiliate under University Faculty supervision. Written report(s).
Offered Fall, Spring
CLS 303.  Radiation Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 171 and HSC 201. Overview of radiation science:
history, radiation physics, instrumentation, protection and safety.
Applications to clinical procedures utilizing radionuclides. Problem
solving.
Offered As needed
CLS 304.  Introduction to Urinalysis and Body Fluids.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 122 and CHE 112 or equivalent is required. An
introduction to the analysis of urine and body fluids used in the clinical
setting. Discussion of the theory and diagnostic applications relative to
the analysis of urine and body fluids. Demonstration of lab techniques
with limited lab practice.
Offered Fall, Spring
CLS 305.  Rad Biology & Protection.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Modes of radioactive decay,
photon radiation, interaction of radiation with matter, biologic effects of
radiation, decontamination techniques, government regulations. Problem
solving. Report writing. Oral and/or written reports/projects.
Offered As needed
CLS 306.  Clin Immun & Immunohem.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250; CLS 301 or concurrent enrollment required.
Theory and practice of serologic techniques; nature of antigens,
antibodies and the immune response. Genetics of red cell antigens.
Pre-natal, neonatal, and pre transfusion testing. Cause, investigation
and prevention of HDNB. Compatibility testing and investigation of
transfusion reactions. Case studies. Written reports. Three hours of
lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
CLS 307.  Clinical Hematology.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250; CLS 301 or concurrent enrollment required. The
goal of this course is to provide the student with the basic theoretical
foundation of Clinical Hematology relative to the scope of practice
for an entry level Clinical Laboratory Scientist. The student will first
focus on normal blood cell development (hematopoiesis), then normal
cell function, leading into abnormal function and the pathogenesis of
hematological disorders. The course emphasis is on recognition of
normal and abnormal laboratory results and interpretation of clinical data
used in the diagnostic process. The course is broken down into four main
sections: starting with an overview of the clinical hematology laboratory
and hematopoiesis; then erythropoiesis and disorders primarily involving
red cells; followed by normal leukopoiesis, non-malignant leukocytes,
and related disorders; and lastly the study of malignant leukocyte
disorders and platelets. Students will describe and analyze the process
of Hematopoiesis. Disciplinary writing will be employed to produce case
studies, written reports and analyze theory of hematology procedures.
Application of course concepts will be used to enumerate and identify
blood cells. Emphasis will be placed on the identification and description
of detection of abnormalities and on the demonstration of special
equipment and techniques. The proposed Student Learning Outcomes
(SLO) are as follows. 1. Demonstrate the ability to perform clinical
diagnostic testing, evaluate outcomes, and generate a written report
in order to solve problems related to pre-analytical, analytical, and
post-analytical components of services in the clinical laboratory. 2.
Employ health professional discourse and proper medical terminology to
facilitate communication on laboratory findings pertaining to hematology.
3. Identify, read, and interpret published studies in clinical hematology in
order to describe, evaluate, and report the clinical laboratory findings. 4.
Identify and analyze the principles of hematology and generate written
reports that address laboratory findings. 5. Communicate effectively
about hematology across medical professions, including physician,
nursing, and other specializations.
Offered Fall
CLS 308.  Pathophys for Hlth Professions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BIO 250 and either BIO 251, CHE 112, or equivalent.
Principles of clinical pathophysiology, including assessment of clinical
data necessary for identifying the causes of diseases and evaluating the
underlying mechanisms of pathologic processes. Discussion of immune
disorders, inflammation, neoplasia and genetic disorders. Review of the
individual organ system and associated pathology. Case studies, written/
and or oral reports.
Offered All terms, Fall
CLS 401.  Overview: Virology/Mycology.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 324 or concurrent enrollment; CLS 301 is
recommended. Brief introduction to special pathogens for students
preparing for the clinical virology and mycology rotations in the clinical
laboratory.
Offered Spring
CLS 410.  Nml: Imaging Techniques.  (5-6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Use of nuclear medicine
equipment in a clinical setting to visualize organs, determine function of
organs and organ systems.
Offered As needed
CLS 411.  Nml: Radiopharm/Assay.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Preparation of radionuclides
for administration in diagnostic testing including radio- chemical purity,
quantitative assay and sterility. Radioassay techniques: calibration and
use of instruments, specimen collection. Quality assurance.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 195
CLS 412.  Nml: Instru/In Vivo.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Performance of procedures
utilizing radionuclides for in-vivo studies. Instrument calibration,
preventive maintenance. Computer applications.
Offered As needed
CLS 413.  Nml: Special Studies.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Practicum in special studies
of interest related to nuclear medicine. Project and written report.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
CLS 420.  Cnm: Imaging Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Principles of stationary and
moving imaging with correlations to pathophysiology in human organs
and systems.
Offered As needed
CLS 421.  Cnm: Radiopharm/Assay.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Theory of
radiopharmaceutical applications: radionuclides, dose calibration.
Principles of saturation analysis and competitive protein binding,
correlations of biochemistry, pathophysiology, radioassay techniques,
principles and applications to individual techniques. Quality assurance.
Offered As needed
CLS 422.  Cnm: Instru/In Vivo Tech.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Instrumentation including
Geiger-Mueller tubes, rectilinear scanners, scintillation spectrometers
and gamma cameras. In-vivo techniques including Schilling test, blood
volume, time dependent studies, erythrokinetics, gastrointestinal loss
studies.
Offered As needed
CLS 423.  Cnm: Special Studies.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Special studies including
ultrasound, radiotherapy and nuclear magnetic resonance. Repeatable
course.
Offered As needed
CLS 430.  Clin Micro Lab.  (3-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Techniques and practice in
medical microbiology including parasitology, mycology, and bacteriology
at a clinical affiliate. Oral and/or written reports/projects.
Offered Fall
CLS 431.  Clin Chemistry Lab.  (3-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Techniques and practice in
chemistry at a clinical affiliate. Oral and/or written reports/projects.
Offered Fall
CLS 432.  Clin Hem/Urinalysis Lab.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Techniques and practice
in hematology and urinalysis at a clinical affiliate. Oral and/or written
reports/projects.
Offered Spring
CLS 433.  Clin Immunohem/Sero Lab.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Techniques and practice in
serology, immunology and blood banking at a clinical affiliate. Oral and/or
written reports/projects.
Offered Spring
CLS 434.  Clin Special Proc Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Techniques and practice
in special procedures at a clinical affiliate. Oral and/or written reports/
projects. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
CLS 440.  Correl Clin Micro.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Theory and correlations
of pathophysiology in medical microbiology including mycology,
parasitology and bacteriology.
Offered Spring
CLS 441.  Correl Clin Chem.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Theory and practical aspects
correlating clinical chemistry with pathophysiology.
Offered Spring
CLS 442.  Correl Clin Hem-Urinalysis.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Theory and practical
applications correlating hematology and urinalysis to pathophysiology.
Offered Fall
CLS 443.  Correl Clin Imunohem-Sero.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year. Theory and practical
applications correlating serology, immunology and blood banking to
pathophysiology.
Offered Fall
CLS 450.  Micro: Fem Genit Tract.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology.
Microscopic examination of cytologic and histologic material of benign
and malignant disease processes from the female genital tract, including
microbiology, hormonal effects and response to therapy.
Offered Fall
CLS 451.  Micro: Resp & Gi Tract.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology.
Microscopic examination of cytologic and histologic material of
benign and malignant disease processes from the respiratory and
gastrointestinal tracts.
Offered Fall
CLS 452.  Micro: Gu Tract/Body Cav Fluid.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology.
Microscopic examination of cytologic and histologic material of benign
and malignant disease processes of the genitourinary system and body
cavity fluids.
Offered Fall
CLS 453.  Micro: Fine Needle Aspir.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology.
Microscopic examination of cytologic and histologic material of benign
and malignant disease processes in aspirated material.
Offered Spring
CLS 454.  Micro: Systems Overview.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. Cytologic
examination of gynecologic and non-gynecologic material from all body
sites for diagnostic purposes.
Offered Spring
CLS 455.  Cytologic Preparation.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. Current
methods of processing and staining material for cytologic study.
Techniques utilized in obtaining non-gynecologic material for cytologic
evaluation.
Offered Spring
196 Clinical Science (CLS)
CLS 460.  General Cytology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. General
cytology, cytogenetics, and electron microscopy. Basic principles of
pathology and cytology as they apply to malignancy. Anatomy, histology,
pathology and cytopathology of the female genital tract, including
microbiology, hormonal effects and response to therapy.
Offered Fall
CLS 461.  Cyto Res & Gi Tract.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. Normal
and abnormal cytology of the respiratory and gastrointestinal tracts with
emphasis on anatomical and histological pathology.
Offered Spring
CLS 462.  Cyto Gu Body C Fluids.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. Normal
and abnormal cytology of the genitourinary system and body cavity fluids
with emphasis on anatomical and histological pathology.
Offered Spring
CLS 463.  Fine Needle Aspirat Cytol.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the clinical year in cytotechnology. Normal
and abnormal aspiration cytology of the major organs with emphasis on
anatomical and histological pathologies.
Offered Spring
CLS 490.  Seminar In Clinical Sciences.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: CLS 301 and CLS 306 required; and all lower division
Clinical Science Program required. Presentation and discussion of
pertinent topics from clinical science trade journals. Written and oral
presentations. One hour of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
CLS 491.  Management Skills in Clinical Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Admission to Clinical Internship; CLS 301 is recommended.
Discussion of current and emerging theories, concepts and trends
relevant to the management of clinical laboratories, including
compliance, professional development, training and educational
methodologies. Student projects, written an oral reports are required.
Offered All terms, Spring
CLS 492.  Research Methods in Clinical Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Clinical Internship; MAT 131 is recommended.
Overview of relevant theoretical concepts, methods and applications
utilized in clinical science research. Application of research methods to
the development and design of research proposal. Critical analysis of
literature review, data, and published research studies in clinical sciences.
Offered All terms, Fall
CLS 494.  Independent Study in Clinical Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Course of study designed cooperatively by student and instructor to
accomplish individualized learning objectives that are appropriate to the
clinical laboratory. Consent of instructor required. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
CLS 501.  Clinical Sciences: Team Concept.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201. Analysis of the current status and problems
in health care delivery including management, staffing and health
economics; development of a realistic model. Role of allied health
professionals in health care delivery; scientific medicine vs. holistic
health; prevention and health education. Coordination of the clinical
sciences into an effective health care team. To successfully complete
this class, students must demonstrate proficiency to the satisfaction
of the instructor in oral and written communication skills in the English
language. Oral and/or written reports/projects.
Offered As needed
CLS 502.  Management Concepts in the Clinical Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201. Managerial function, organization, and structure.
A pragmatic approach to the strategies and tactics available to the
professional manager. Special projects in work sampling, workload
recording and time management for health care professionals. Oral and/
or written reports/projects.
Offered As needed
CLS 503.  Clinical Diagnosis.  (3 Units)  
By use of case studies, interpretation of clinical data, correlation of
history and physical to diagnosis, treatment and follow-up protocols.
Student case study investigation. Two hours of lecture and two hours of
activity per week.
Offered As needed
CLS 504.  Data Collect & Process.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 111 or equivalent. Collection, storage and retrieval
of data, with emphasis on clinical applications. Modern information
systems and evaluation of such systems from the clinical science
management view point. Oral and/or written reports/projects. Two hours
of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
CLS 505.  Stat Analysis & Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131. Application of statistical analysis in the clinical
and health sciences, including normal and binomial distribution, t-tests,
chi square tests, analysis of variance, linear regression and correlation.
Student project required. Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity
per week
Offered As needed
CLS 590.  Graduate Seminar.  (1-2 Units)  
Prerequisites: CLS 501, CLS 502 and CLS 503 or consent of instructor.
Seminar methods and use of the literature in the clinical sciences.
Faculty and student directed discussions of contemporary clinical
science issues. Participants present and interpret recent publications.
Written abstracts. Repeatable up to 6 units. One hour of seminar per
week.
Offered As needed
CLS 594.  Ind Study In Clin Sci.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and advisor. Independent and original
laboratory or field investigation under supervision of a faculty member.
Offered As needed
CLS 595.  Special Top:.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Health Care Practitioner. Advanced topics of special interest
to Clinical Science majors possessing health care credentials. Topic and
content will vary as announced.
Offered As needed
CLS 596.  Internship.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing; CLS 501 and 502 recommended.
Students will be directed to health care facilities to serve as interns
within their chosen specialization. Teaching opportunities may be
available in a variety of settings. Regular meetings are scheduled with a
faculty internship supervisor to assess student progress. Written report
required. Course designed for graduate students in the Clinical Sciences.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 197
CLS 599.  Grad Capstone Activity.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate Writing Assessment Requirement; advancement
to candidacy, and completion of all required core courses. Department
approval of advisor and project. Students will choose either a thesis,
project or comprehensive examination in consultation with their advisor.
Offered As needed
CLS 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed course work but not their thesis,
project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other requirements
remaining for completion of their degree, may maintain continuous
attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate program
coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Communication Sciences and
Disorders (CSD)
CSD 341.  Communication Sciences and Disorders.  (3 Units)  
Overview of normal and disordered communication, including speech,
language, hearing, and swallowing impairments. Educational and clinical
requirements for entry into the speech pathology profession. Introduction
to the Code of Ethics of the American Speech, Language, Hearing
Association (ASHA).
Offered Fall
CSD 342.  Phonetics.  (3 Units)  
Study of the physical and physiological bases of speech, the articulatory,
acoustic and linguistic aspects of the sound system of standard and nonstandard dialects of American English. Practice using the International
Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) for broad and narrow transcription.
Offered Fall
CSD 343.  Speech and Language Development.  (3 Units)  
Study of the acquisition of phonology, morphology, semantics, syntax
and pragmatics in typically developing children. Includes the biological,
cognitive, and social bases of language acquisition, theories of language
acquisition and an introduction to the acquisition of first and second
languages.
Offered Spring
CSD 354.  Anatomy and Physiology of the Speech and Swallowing
Mechanism.  (3 Units)  
Study of the anatomy and physiology of the speech and swallowing
mechanism. The processes of respiration, phonation, resonation,
articulation, and swallowing are included. An introduction to the central
nervous system and the peripheral nervous system is provided.
Offered Spring
CSD 355.  Audiology and Audiometry.  (3 Units)  
Anatomy and physiology of the outer, middle, and inner ear and the
central auditory processing system. Characteristics of hearing disorders
including etiologies and risk factors. Methods and procedures used in
assessing the auditory system and management of hearing disorders.
Offered As needed
CSD 356.  Clinical Methods and Procedures.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to general principles and procedures for assessment and
treatment of individuals with communicative disorders. Basic concepts
of standardized and non-standardized evaluation procedures for children
and adults. Theory and application of clinical writing. Multicultural
considerations will be addressed.
Offered As needed
CSD 441.  Speech Science.  (3 Units)  
Structure and function of neuromuscular systems used in respiration,
phonation, and resonance-articulation. Introduction to the psychological
and acoustic aspects of speech production and perception. Students are
introduced to instrumentation for acoustic and perceptual analysis of
speech.
Offered Fall
CSD 442.  Neurology and Neurogenic Disorders.  (3 Units)  
Anatomy and physiology of the nervous system as they relate to speech,
language, hearing and swallowing. Clinical characteristics of neurogenic
language disorders, apraxia of speech and dysarthria. Contemporary
approaches to assessment and treatment. Disorders will be discussed
across the lifespan.
Offered Fall
CSD 443.  Disorders of Articulation and Phonology.  (3 Units)  
Examination of theories of normal and disordered acquisition of
phonology and articulatory production. Includes phonologic assessment
methods, practice in analysis of child speech samples, and contemporary
approaches to intervention. Emphasis on speech profiles of special
populations.
Offered Spring
CSD 454.  Childhood Language Disorders.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of components of language and how they relate to language
disorders in children. Involves multiple diagnostic categories for language
impairment, risk factors for language impairment, methods of prevention,
assessment and clinical management. Emphasis on linguistic and
cultural diversity.
Offered Spring
CSD 455.  Disorders of Voice and Fluency.  (3 Units)  
Etiology, assessment, and therapy for disturbances in fluency of speech
with emphasis on psychological, physiological, and linguistic variables
correlated to dysfluent behaviors. Etiology, characteristics, clinical
assessment and therapeutic management of functional and organic
voice disorders throughout the lifespan.
Offered Spring
CSD 456.  Aural Rehabilitation.  (3 Units)  
Nature of hearing impairment and impact on communicative function
in children and adults. Theories and delivery methodologies for speech
reading, hearing aid use, counseling, assessment and remediation of
speech and language skills, auditory training, and educational placement
for children.
Offered As needed
CSD 495.  Special Topics in Communication Sciences and
Disorders.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Advanced course of special interest
for students in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as
announced.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Communications (COM)
COM 100.  Media & Society.  (3 Units)  
A critical overview of media culture including newspapers, magazines,
film, radio, television, popular music, advertising, public relations, and the
Internet. Focuses on building critical media literacy skills by developing a
concrete understanding of media history, media analysis, the structure of
media industries and their major players and products.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
198 Communications (COM)
COM 105.  Introduction to Media Criticism.  (3 Units)  
Develops the analytical tools required for critical understanding of media
culture. Investigates relationships between institutions, texts, audience
practices and technologies in order to build a foundation for informed
media engagement, criticism and analysis in the 21st century.
Offered Fall
COM 106.  Digital Toolkit.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: COM 107 is required. Introduction to the foundational
and emerging tools, platforms, and digital skills essential for students
interested in pursuing careers in any communications or related field,
including word processing, data management, presentational, media
content creation, web publishing and design/editing software and
programs.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 107.  Digital Toolkit Lab.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: COM 106 is required. Provides practice in the foundational
and emerging tools, platforms, and digital skills essential for students
interested in pursuing careers in any communications or related filed,
including word processing, data management, presentational, media
content creation, web publishing, and design/editing software and
programs.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 110.  Introduction to Digital Media Production.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: COM 111 is required. An introduction to the process of
digital video production that provides basic skills in all areas of digital
video production in preparation for a career in any communications
or related field that might require these basic skills. Skill sets include
camera, lighting, sound, pre-production and production methodologies,
and basic digital processes.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 111.  Introduction to Digital Media Production Laboratory.  (1
Units)  
Co-requisite: COM 110 is required. Provides instruction on basic skills
in all areas of digital video production. The lab provides hands-on
training in the use of camera operations, lighting, sound recording, preproduction, production and post-production methodologies, and basic
digital processes.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 130.  Introduction to Film.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the study of film as an aesthetic, historical, and
cultural phenomenon, and to various methods of critical analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 200.  Genre Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Critical study of a
specific genre of media (horror, science fiction, western, or documentary
for example). Examines genres in their cultural and historical context and
critical analysis writing using appropriate concepts and terminology.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
COM 206.  Photojournalism.  (3 Units)  
Instruction in the basic principles of still photography.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
COM 250.  Writing for the Media.  (3 Units)  
Instruction and practice in the basics of reporting and writing news for
print, electronic and digital media.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
COM 251.  Newswriting in Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPA 220 and SPA 221; or SPA 280 are required. Instruction
and practice of the basics of reporting in Spanish language for traditional
and new media. Students will gain the ability to conduct research, find
sources and produce news in Spanish.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
COM 301.  News and Information Literacy.  (3 Units)  
Develop critical thinking and literacy skills through examination of news
and other constructed messages. Emphasis on analyzing and evaluating
information sources and their narratives, structures, origins, placement
and availability.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 302.  Law Of The Mass Media.  (3 Units)  
Libel law, right to privacy, contempt of court, copyright, the right to print
news of public affairs, the Freedom of Information Act, and other legal
topics of concern to the media professional.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 307.  History of Film.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. A critical survey of the
history of film from the 1890s to the present. Covers a range of cinematic
traditions from narrative to experimental. Examines the interrelationships
between cinematic forms, industry, regulation, technology, aesthetics, and
culture.
Offered Spring
COM 308.  Television History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. A critical survey of the
history of American television, from the 1940s to the present. Examines
the interrelationships between programming forms, industry, regulation,
technology, aesthetics, and culture.
Offered Fall
COM 309.  History of Emerging Media.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. A critical survey of the
history of new and emerging media forms from 1830s to the present.
Examines a range of media technologies as sites of contestation and
negotiation before their use by audiences had been institutionalized
within industry and culture.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 311.  Persuasion.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 is required. Provides students with an in-depth
understanding of persuasion conceptions, theories, and practices.
Students analyze findings and implications of persuasion research to
real-world cases.
Offered Infrequent
COM 314.  Broadcast Journalism.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 250 is required. Co-requisite: COM 315 is required.
Provide students with accurate news judgement and the fundamental
journalistic techniques of news gathering, reporting, writing, editing,
evaluating, and producing news and feature stories for radio and
television news broadcasts.
Offered Fall
COM 315.  Broadcast Journalism Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 250 is required. Co-requisite: COM 314 is required.
Provide students with accurate news judgement and the fundamental
journalistic techniques of news gathering, reporting, writing, editing,
evaluating, and producing news and feature stories for radio and
television news broadcasts.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 199
COM 320.  Sports Journalism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 250 is required. Provides instruction and practice in
reporting stories and producing multimedia news packages on a variety
of sports topics including game coverage, interviewing, and reporting on
both professional and amateur sports activities for print, broadcast, and
online media.
Offered Fall
COM 328.  Entertainment and Lifestyle Journalism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 is required. Theory and practices of journalistic
writing about television, film, music, visual arts, travel destinations, dining
and other cultural phenomena across media platforms.
Offered Spring
COM 330.  Emerging Media Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 106 are required. Course
focuses on writing interactive stories for emerging media. Students
develop skills in generating concepts, story structure, character
development, incorporating interactivity and pitching. Students conduct
both collaborative and individual projects and develop skills for peer
critique of creative work.
Offered Spring
COM 331.  Screenwriting I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Serves as an introduction
to the craft of screenwriting, with primary focus on equipping students
with the skills to write scenes and short format screenplays and to
analyze and evaluate feature films and screenplays.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 332.  Writing for Series Television.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Students break down the
TV-writing process then apply each step to the development of their own
original script. Students will learn the basic theory and formal aspects of
story structure, character development, the use of conflict, scene writing
and dialogue for television.
Offered Fall
COM 333.  Digital Journalism.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 110 and COM 250 are required. Co-requisites:
COM 334 is required. Provides students with skills needed to gather
news, analyze and produce a variety of stories for digital media across
platforms and digital publishing tools, including social media, podcasts,
blogs, videos, and websites, as well as to understand the nature of the
emerging field of convergent journalism.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 334.  Digital Journalism Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 110 and COM 250 are required. Co-requisite: COM 333
is required. Provides skills needed to gather, analyze and produce a
variety of stories for digital media, across platforms and digital publishing
tools, including social media, podcasts, blogs, videos, and websites, and
understand the emerging field of convergent journalism.
Offered Spring
COM 338.  Cross-Cultural Journalism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 250 is required. Provides a broad, critical examination
of differences in global news culture, policies and styles, including
Spanish-language, alternative, ethnic-focused, and political-driven media,
and other cultural print and broadcast organizations. Topics vary by
semester.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 339.  Latinx culture and the news media in the USA.  (3 Units)  
This course offers an overview of contemporary Latinx news media in
the U.S. For a deeper understanding of the topics reported in the LatinX
new media, students will learn about the countries that comprise Latin
America. This includes Latin American history and culture. The course
will highlight current events in Latin AMerica and how they connect with
Latinx communities in the U.S.
COM 340.  Emerging Media Making.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 106/107 are required.
Co-requisite: COM 341 is required. Students utilize digital software
to produce original new media projects, including memes, pixel art,
music, interactive fiction and/or digital games. Students conduct both
collaborative and individual projects and develop skills for peer critique of
creative work.
Offered Infrequent
COM 341.  Emerging Media Making Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 106/17 are required.
Corequisite: COM 340 is required. Lab activity works in conjunction with
COM 340: Emerging Media Making to give students hands-on time with
production software under instructor supervision.
Offered Infrequent
COM 342.  Advertising Strategy and Copywriting.  (3 Units)  
Planning, creating and preparing demographically and psychographically
targeted advertisements for print, electronic, interactive, and out-ofhome media. Students will write copy for commercial and not-for-profit
advertising campaigns. Restricted to majors
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 344.  Advertising Media Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the comparative advantages (cost and market impact) of
various advertising media as a basis for time and space buying within
the context of the creative advertising campaign with an emphasis on
campaign planning and implementation.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 346.  News Gathering & Reporting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250. Theory and practice of information gathering
for print and electronic media writing, including the art of interviewing.
Identification, assessing and verifying published, computerized data base
and live sources. Special emphasis on interview problems such as invalid
inference and supposition.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 347.  Multimedia Interviewing Practices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100, COM 110 and COM 250 are required. An
introduction to the fundamentals of gathering information through
interview techniques, active listening, nonverbal communication, and
psychological dynamics of interviewing in journalistic situations.
Emphasis on accurate note taking, transcribing, and narrative structure
from interviewing for print, online, and broadcast media.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 348.  News Editing And Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250. Principles, practice in copy editing, including
review of grammar, spelling, punctuation, word use, organization, word
flow, sentences, information verification, application of appropriate story
forms; writing headlines, photo cropping and sizing, computer desktop
page design and editorial judgment. One hour lecture, two hours activity
per week.
Offered Infrequent
200 Communications (COM)
COM 350.  Culture, Gender and Strategic Communication.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 is required. Improve the understanding of
cultural differences and assumptions regarding gender in the context of
strategic communication. An overview of major communication theories,
strategies, methods, and practices in advertising and public relations
campaigns will be covered. Develop advertising skills and public relations
messages based on cultural aspects in strategic communication.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
COM 352.  Feature And Critical Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250. Analysis and practice of preparing feature
stories and critical reviews for newspapers, magazines, radio, television
and video. Assignments include profiles, how-to pieces and news
features. Critical reviews focus on theatre, film, music, fine arts and
books. Two hours lecture, two hours activity per week.
Offered Fall, All terms
COM 355.  News Production Workshop.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 is required, COM 346 is recommended.
Production of print and electronic forms of campus newspaper. Practices
include original story selection, writing, reporting, interviewing, and
editing. Repeatable course. Two hours lecture, three hours activity per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 358.  Communications Graphics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250. Learning methods for producing various forms of
visual communications including fliers, informational graphics and logos,
newsletters, magazines and newspapers in correlation with desktop
publishing, page design, typography selection, copy fitting photo sizing
and cropping. Two hours lecture, two hours activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
COM 360.  Pub Affairs & Edit. Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 and COM 346. Reporting, writing and editorial
interpretation of public affairs events and issues, including on-site
coverage of local governments, civic affairs, schools, police and courts.
Utilization of public documents, enhancement of interviewing techniques,
with emphasis on accuracy, clarity and social responsibility. Two hours
lecture and two hours activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
COM 363.  Social Media Strategies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 and COM 365 are required. Provides an
overview of various social media techniques and the strategies to help
organizations engage in dialogue and build relationships effectively with
different audiences and stakeholders.
Offered Spring
COM 365.  Introduction to Public Relations.  (3 Units)  
Public relations practices and principles as applied to government,
education and industry.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 366.  Public Relations Writing.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 and COM 365. Co-requisite: COM 367 is required.
Public relations writing; message and audience analysis. Creating
effective forms of public relations communications, producing print and
video press releases, public service announcements, media fact sheets
and alerts, executive letters, press kits and brochures and newsletter
copy. Two hours lecture, two hours activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 367.  Public Relations Writing Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 and COM 365 are required. Co-requisite: COM 366
is required. Public Relations writing laboratory course that covers
the creation of effective forms of public relations communications;
the production of print and video press releases, public service
announcements, media fact sheet ans alerts, executive letters, press kits
and brochures, and newsletter copy.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 368.  Investigative Reporting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 250 is required. Prepares students to conduct indepth reporting by examining the motivation, process, and skills behind
investigative journalism, including obtaining and analyzing public records,
private documents and data on social, political, and scientific issues for
print, broadcast or online media.
Offered Fall
COM 370.  Creative Producing I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or 105, COM 379, and COM 330, COM 331 or
COM 332 are required. Builds on students' understanding of storytelling
and the industry to provide an introduction to script development and
writing coverage. Students study the basics of packaging films for
Hollywood and how to navigate the business of both studio production
and independent film-making.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 372.  Crisis Communication.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250 and COM 365 are required. An introduction to
crisis communication theory and application. The course will cover crisis
communication theory, crisis management strategies and various case
studies.
Offered All terms, Fall
COM 375.  Media and Representation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Critical study of US media
representations of race, gender, class, sexuality, and other markers of
difference. Considers the complex social, historical, and industrial forces
shaping media portrayals of identities, groups, and cultures.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 376.  Transmedia Storytelling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 379 are required. Provides
an overview of the transmedia landscape and developing skills necessary
for writing stories intended for use across multiple platforms. Topics
include how stories are developed for cross media consumption from
story ideation to production and distribution.
Offered Fall
COM 377.  Global Media.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 379 are required. Critical
study of media outside of the US; may focus on a transnational, national,
regional, or local media tradition or industry. Considers how global media
relates to history, culture, and identity. Focuses on critical analysis writing
using appropriate concepts and terminology.
Offered Spring
COM 378.  Media Audiences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Critical
study of a specific media audience (comic book fans, social media users,
telenova viewers, for example). Examines audiences in cultural and
historical context, considering the range of ways in which audiences
make meaning from and engage with media texts.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 201
COM 379.  Media Industries.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Analyzes contemporary
media industries offering a comprehensive overview of how the industries
work, their historical roots in relation to how they operate today, and
their cultural influence. Examines how the relationships between various
cultural, industrial, regulatory, and economic elements set the conditions
by which media industries create cultural texts.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 388.  Digital Magazine Production.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250, COM 347 and COM 352 are required. Corequisite: COM 389 is required. This course is designed to build skills
in advanced feature storytelling through the production of a digital
magazine for distribution across digital platforms. From conception to
production, feature story packages and will be developed with a strong
focus on research, writing, editing, photography, creating videos and
podcasts, and design.
Offered Spring
COM 389.  Digital Magazine Production Laboratory.  (2 Units)  
Perquisites: COM 250 and COM 352 are required. Co-requisite: COM 388
is required. This course is designed to build skills in advanced feature
storytelling through the production of a digital magazine for distribution
across digital platforms. From conception to production, feature story
packages and will be developed with a strong focus on research, writing,
editing, photography, creating videos and podcasts, and design.
Offered Spring
COM 390.  Hollywood by the Horns.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 379 are required.
Workshop that contributes to the mission of the Hollywood by the Horns
program: to build up and maintain the relationship between working
professionals in Hollywood and the dynamic students of CSU Dominguez
Hills. Requires department consent.
Offered Fall
COM 400.  Media Analysis and Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 and COM 250. Critical analyses of the media and
their role in society from an empirical research perspective. Emphasis on
social science-based research methods including focus groups, in-depth
interviews, correlational studies and experiments, and research report
preparation.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 420.  Screenwriting II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105; and COM 331 are required. Advancing
the process of screenwriting, students develop original work culminating
in the completion of the first act of a feature length screenplay. Final
projects can be developed into a senior project for COM 490.
Offered Infrequent
COM 435.  Media Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 is required. Course is designed to acquaint
students with the burgeoning field of media psychology, which examines
the intersection of media use/media content and psychological
processes. In this course, students will learn how mass media messages,
images, and texts can alter our thoughts, feelings, and behaviors, and
how media and technology use may lead to or exacerbate psychological
disorders.
Offered Spring
COM 467.  Integrated Communications Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 250, COM 365 and COM 366 are required. Analysis
and development of strategies for planning/implementing integrated
communications campaigns and preventing/solving integrated
communications problems. Emphasis is placed on both individual
and team case studies, incorporating strategic planning and writing
techniques previously learned.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 470.  Creative Producing II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: COM 100 or COM 105, COM 370, and COM 330, COM 331,
or COM 332 are required. Develops students' knowledge of producing
scripted entertainment from development through distribution. Students
will complete advanced work in screenplay development and the multiple
pathways to producing.
Offered Infrequent
COM 490.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of department; senior standing. Discussion and
preparation of senior project and professional portfolio.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent study in any relevant subject area under the direction of a
member of the Communications Department faculty. Course repeatable 3
times for a maximum of 9 units.
Offered Fall, Spring
COM 495.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: COM 100 or COM 105 is required. Restricted to seniors or
by consent of department. An intensive study of an issue or concept in
journalism, advertising, public relations, film, television or emerging media
that is of special interest to both the faculty member and the students.
Repeatable for credit
Offered As needed
COM 496.  Internship In Communications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and/or approval of the department is
required; completion of a minimum of 27 upper division units in the
major is recommended. Directed work experience in the communications
field-print or electronic journalism, public relations or advertising, film,
broadcasting, or telecommunications. Ideally, such work provides a
practical bridge linking the student's academic studies with the world
of work. A minimum of 10 hours a week of supervised work experience
under the direction of a professionally-qualified mentor.
Offered Fall, Spring
Computer Information Systems (CIS)
CIS 270.  Info Sys/Tech Fundamentals.  (3 Units)  
Provides an introduction to information technology, systems concepts,
and application software. Covers system components and relationships,
cost/value and quality of information, and package software solutions.
Includes basic skills related to operating systems, word processing,
spreadsheet software, and the Internet.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CIS 272.  Business Programming I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 270 or CSC 111 or CSC 121 may be taken concurrently.
Provides an understanding of algorithm development, programming,
computer concepts and the design and application of data and file
structure. Topics include file processing, data analysis, form design, and
report generation.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
202 Computer Information Systems (CIS)
CIS 275.  Internet Literacy.  (3 Units)  
Digital skills and concepts needed for success in the Internet era as a
student, professional, and lifelong learner. Concepts pertaining to Internet
technology and applications, their implications for key relationships
of humankind to the social and physical environment. Skills using and
developing Internet applications in everyday life.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 276.  Personal Product with IS Tech.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 270. Enables student to improve their skills as
knowledge workers through effective and efficient use of productivity
software. Covers advanced features of word processing, spreadsheet,
presentation, database, and groupware, including applications
development.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 370.  Info Sys Theory and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 270 or CSC 111 or CSC 121. Provides an introduction
to organizational systems, planning, and decision process, and how
information is used for decision support in organization. Covers the
concepts of information systems for competitive advantage, data
as a resource, quality control and reengineering, management and
development of systems, and end-user computing.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CIS 371.  Business Programming II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 272. Analysis, design, and development of business
applications using object-oriented programming languages. Topics
include GUI interface, application optimization, client/server applications,
ad hoc queries, and dynamic link libraries.
Offered Fall
CIS 372.  Systems Analysis and Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 370 may be taken concurrently. Business computing
systems, with emphasis on system analysis; tools and techniques of
systems study; problem definition, data requirements and analytical
approaches.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
CIS 373.  Database Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 370. CIS 272 is recommended. Concepts of data
structures and data base processing; major approaches to design and
implementation of data base applications; discussion of commercial
systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 375.  Data Communications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 370. History and trends of hardware/software for
telecommunications; asynchronous and synchronous protocols; codes;
case studies of current commercial applications; distributed processing;
carriers, services and regulatory agencies; standards; error management;
reliability; design and tuning of networks; security.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 378.  Info Security Theories & Pract.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 272 or CIS 275, and CIS 370. Covers security
policies, models, and mechanisms for privacy, integrity, and availability.
The business impact of security is also discussed along with
countermeasures and best practices used to prevent or mitigate the
effects of attacks and malicious code. Various IT security threats and
foundation of an overall information security program needed to combat
these threats are described.
Offered Fall
CIS 380.  Introduction to Programming for Data Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 370 and CJA 341 or PUB 305 or OMG 321 are required.
CIS 373 is recommended. Introduces students to basic programming
skills, using one or more programming languages which are widely
applicable to data analysis and visualization, that would enable them to
be productive in the field of data analytics.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 471.  Adv Network Based Applications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 275. Covers network-based applications in commerce
and cooperative work. Internet publishing and commerce, Internet
Protocol servers, database connectivity, computer support of cooperative
work.
Offered Spring
CIS 474.  Project Management Fundamentals.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite:Â CIS 370 is required. Focuses on basic tools, techniques,
and concepts for guiding a scientific project from inception to successful
completion. Demonstrates how complexity can be managed in a manner
that increases the probability of project success. Students will gain a
working knowledge of the major areas of the Project Management Body
of Knowledge (PMBOK as defined by the Project Management Institute)
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 476.  Adv Concepts Bus Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 370. Special topics from modern computing
developments. Special emphasis will be given to topics not included in
other course offerings (e.g., decision support systems, videotex, etc.).
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
CIS 477.  Adv Data Communications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 370 and CIS 375. Covers advanced topics required
to design, implement, and maintain networks, including the advanced
aspects of protocol models, IP addressing, routing, subnetting, and the
configuration and operation of network devices.
Offered Fall
CIS 478.  Firewall and Computer Network Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 275 or CIS 375. Provides an introduction to firewalls
and other network security components and elements that can work
together to create an in-depth defensive perimeter around an LAN.
These include packet filtering, authentication, proxy, servers, encryption
bastion, virtual private networks, long file maintenance, and intrusion
detection systems. Practical topics in network security include policy and
mechanism, malicious code; intrusion detection, prevention, response;
cryptographic protocols for privacy and integrity are also covered.
Offered Fall
CIS 480.  Data Mining and Business Intelligence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 373 is required. Data mining concepts such as data
pattern recognition, data cleansing, data transformation, and data
extraction. Also, typical processes, tools, and applications for better
business decisions.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 203
CIS 482.  Databases & Web Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 473 and CIS 478. This course introduces methods of
protecting data: discretionary and mandatory access controls, secure
database design, data integrity, secure architectures, secure transaction
processing, information flow controls, inference controls, and auditing.
Security models for relational and object-oriented databases, methods
to develop the overall security program necessary to protect data and
react to threats as they occur, and security problems raised by data
warehousing and data mining are discussed. Furthermore the course
covers Web security including SSL/TLC protocols, HTTPS as it relates
to SSL, the most common uses of Instant Messaging application, and
the variety of mainstream web tools such as JavaScript, Buffer Overflow,
ActiveX, Cookies, Applets, and SMTP that are commonly exploited by
attackers on the internet.
Offered Spring
CIS 488.  Mgt of Information Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 482 or may be taken concurrently. This course
provides a management overview of information security and a thorough
treatment of the administration of the information security. Issues
based on the management functions of Planning, Policy, People, Project
Management, Risk Management, and Risk Protection are discussed.
The course also discusses practical methods for 1) developing practical
risk assessment procedures that link security to business needs, 2)
involving business managers in risk assessment, and 3) managing risk on
a continuing basis.
Offered Spring
CIS 494.  Ind Study In Comp Info Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CIS 372, minimum GPA 3.0, and upper division standing.
Independent research or special project under the direction of a full-time
faculty member in the Computer Information Systems Department. CR/
NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 496.  Internship In CIS.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Minimum GPA 3.0. A project-type course in computer
information systems carried out on an independent basis, with the
cooperation of an industrial or governmental concern that is active in
the CIS field. Professional report describing project is required. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
CIS 502.  Adv Topics in Info Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 270. Covers issues of concern to managers in
areas such as information processing applications and technology,
management of the information processing function, impacts of
information technology on the firm and on society, global information
systems and the information superhighway.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 503.  IT in International Business.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. Applying information
technology in international business. Topics include traditional
and Web-based EDI (electronic data interchange), ebXML, global
telecommunications, collaborative technology, supply chain
management, strategic management of international information
systems, legal and cultural challenges to implementing international
information systems.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 520.  Network-based Applications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. This course focuses
on the applications and implications of networks for individuals,
organizations and society. It covers the historical aspects of networks
and their applications, the emerging network applications, and the impact
of network applications on individuals, organizations and society.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 530.  Enterprise Resource Planning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. A theoretical and
practical study on enterprise resource planning (ERP) systems, including
the architecture and differentiation among major commercial ERP
software, ERP relationship to various functional business areas, issues of
implementing ERP, and the security and confidentiality issues in ERP.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 540.  Data Warehousing & Mining.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. This course covers
topics in (1) data warehousing, e.g. extracting, cleaning, and organizing
data from transactional databases, (2) data mining, e.g. extracting
patterns and relationships from the data warehouse, and (3) decision
making based on the patterns from the data mining process.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 550.  Project Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. This course addresses
how IT projects should be managed. Topics include human resources
management, communications management, scope management,
quality management, scheduling/time management, cost and resource
management, risk management, contract/procurement management, and
project integration.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 560.  Info Security for Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 may be taken concurrently. Topics on information
security include the legislation and standards, law and ethics, planning
for security and contingencies, policies and procedures, security
management, network vulnerabilities, firewall, viruses and other malicious
code, risk management, protection mechanisms and current problems in
system security.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 575.  SAP Supply Chain.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 530 and OMG 510. This course will teach the student
how to use SAP software to structure and implement solutions to various
aspects of supply chain operations. Among the topics to be covered
will be demand and supply planning, procurement, manufacturing,
warehousing, order fulfillment, and transportation.
Offered All terms, Infrequent
CIS 580.  IT Mgt. Capstone Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CIS 502 and completion of at least 3 electives. In this
course, students tackle real life IT management projects. Emphases are
on applying theoretical frameworks to align enterprise IT and business
strategies, and on integrating and applying knowledge and skills that they
have acquired from the previous course work.
Offered Infrequent
CIS 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor and MBA program coordinator.
Independent research or other study under the direction of a full-time
faculty member of the Computer Information Systems Department. CR/
NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
204 Computer Science (CSC)
CIS 595.  Sel Topi in Comp Info Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate Standing and CIS 502. Intensive study of a
specialized area of Computer Information Systems on a selected topic
of particular interest to faculty and students. Three hours of seminar per
week. Specific topic listed in class schedule. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Computer Science (CSC)
CSC 101.  Intro.to Computer Education.  (3 Units)  
A computer literacy course designed to familiarize the learner with a
variety of computer tools and computer concepts with emphasis on
utilizing packaged programs. This course provides an introduction to
the use of computers, common software programs and peripherals.
Students are instructed in the use of a word processor, drawing programs,
spreadsheet, database, presentation tools, internet applications and
statistical package in scientific applications.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 111.  Introduction to Computers and Basic Programming.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to computer programming with particular emphasis on small
systems through programming in the BASIC language.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 112.  Intro Computers And Basic.  (20 Units)  
Offered All terms
CSC 115.  Introduction to Programming Concepts.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to computer programming by teaching techniques
of problem solving. Students will become acquainted with decision
constructs, looping structures, and subroutine modules. Students will
learn the vocabulary of object-oriented programming.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 116.  Introduction to Computer Hardware and Tools.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to microcomputer hardware and operating systems.
Students will be required to use application software to research,
generate and prepare a semester project.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 121.  Introduction to Computer Science and Programming I.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 115 or equivalent and MAT 153 or consent of
instructor. Organization of sequential, digital machine: CPU, I/O, storage,
communications devices. Functions of operating systems: translators,
editors, peripheral control utilities. The course covers the development,
description, and analysis of elementary algorithms. It includes three
hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 123.  Introduction to Computer Science and Programming II.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 121. Continuation of CSC 121. Fundamental
programming concepts using arrays, records, pointers, linked list,
trees and recursion. Good style, documentation and structure will be
emphasized. Introduction to analysis of algorithms for efficiency and
correctness.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 195.  Selected Topics in Computer Science.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
science not covered by current course offerings.
Offered As needed
CSC 221.  Assembly Language and Introduction to Computer
Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121. Programming problems in assembly language.
Writing and using macros. Features of modern computer hardware and
operating systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 251.  C Language Programming and Unix.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121. Introduction to programming in the C language
and its use in systems programming in the UNIX operating system.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 255.  Dynamic Web Programming.  (3 Units)  
The goal of the course is to provide instruction to the design and
implementation of dynamic web applications. Topics include origins of
Internet, TCP/IP basics, Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML,
XML and XSL languages, client-side and server-side languages: Perl and
PHP, interactivity in website design, front-end interface to databases,
website access control, confidentiality, integrity, accessibility and their
applicability in developing dynamic and distributed client/server web
applications.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
CSC 281.  Discrete Structures.  (3 Units)  
This course introduces fundamental structures and logical principles that
form the foundation of computer science. Topics will be introduced with
emphasis on applications in computer science. Students will be required
to write programs to deepen their understanding about the topics.Â
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 295.  Sel. Topics in Computer Sci.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
science not covered by current course offerings. May be used for elective
credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed
CSC 300.  Software Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 123 is required. This is an advanced Java
programming course. Students are expected to have a much deeper
understanding about major aspects of Java and OOP, and significantly
enhance their programming and problem-solving ability. Several data
structure and algorithms will be introduced.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 301.  Computers And Society.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 101 or CSC 111 or CSC 115 or CSC 121 or CSC 272
or consent of instructor. Ethical, legal, psychological, economic, and
theoretical implications and limitations of the uses of digital computers.
Oral and written presentations required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 311.  Data Structures.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 123 and CSC 281 or MAT 281. More advanced
and detailed treatment of concepts of data organization introduced
in CSC 123. Includes lists, trees, graphs and storage allocation and
collection. Applications to such areas as symbol tables, string search and
optimization.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 321.  Programming Languages.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 123. A comparative study of programming languages.
Characteristics of languages and formal description of languages.
Assignments in several languages.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 205
CSC 331.  Computer Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221 and MAT 281. Structure of the modern digital
computer. Introduction to Boolean algebra and design of digital circuits.
Arithmetic, control, storage and input/output systems.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 337.  Microcomputers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 221, CSC 331, and MAT 281. The architecture,
programming and interfacing of microcomputers. Topics include input/
output, instruction sets, subroutines, interrupts and control. In-class use
of microcomputer hardware. Repeatable course. Two hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 341.  Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 311, CSC 331, and MAT 321. Overall structure of batch
and time-shared operating systems. Scheduling of jobs, CPU and I/O
devices. Paged and segmented memory management. I/O programming
and file handling. Synchronization of concurrent processes.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 353.  File Processing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 123 and CSC 251 are required; CSC 311 is
recommended. Characteristics of secondary storage media. Logical vs.
physical organization. Sequential, direct, and indexed access methods.
Tree structure of indices; hashing.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 361.  Systems Programming.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311, CSC 331, and CSC 341. Design and construction
of systems programs such as assemblers, macro processors and linking
loaders. Introduction to software engineering.
Offered As needed
CSC 371.  Finite Automata.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): CSC 311 is required. Introduces the formal foundations
of computer science, the limits of computation, and the limits of efficient
computation. The goal is to provide computer science students with a
broad understanding of various models of computation and their power.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 395.  Sel Topics in Computer Science.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor and upper division standing in major.
Content varies. Advanced topics in computer science not covered by
current course offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental
programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed
CSC 401.  Analysis Of Algorithms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Mathematical study of non-numeric computer
algorithms. Topics include combinatorial techniques, algorithm proof, and
program complexity.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 411.  Artificial Intelligence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 311 and CSC 321. Introduction to the use of
computers to simulate intelligent behavior; includes game playing,
problem solving, use of natural languages and pattern recognition.
Offered Fall
CSC 421.  Advanced Programming Languages.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC CORE. Continuation of CSC 321. Methods of formal
specification of syntax and semantics of programming languages and
special purpose language features for such areas as simulation and
systems programming.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 431.  Advanced Computer Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221, CSC 331, CSC 341, MAT 271, and MAT 281.
Alternate computer architectures and features of large scale systems.
Microprogramming, parallel processing, memory organization, input/
output systems, interprocessor communications and multiprocessing.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 441.  Advanced Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC CORE. Theoretical study of important topics in
operating system design. Substantial individual and group programming
projects.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 451.  Computer Networks.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 and MAT 281. An introduction to computer
networks including both long haul and local area networks. Topics
include network topology, network access methodology, transmission
media, protocols and applications.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 453.  Data Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Fundamental concepts in design, analysis and
implementation of computerized database systems. Database models,
user and program interfaces and database control.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 455.  WWW Design and Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 251, CSC 311 and CSC 321. An introduction to the
design, implementation and management of World Wide Web over the
Internet and Intranet networks. Topics include Internet overview, web
authoring, web programming, server setting and maintenance.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 459.  Security Engineering.  (3 Units)  
The goal of the course is to provide introduction to the design,
implementation and management of systems that remain dependable
in the face of malice, error or mischance. Topics include the tools,
processes and methods needed to design, implement and test complete
systems and to adapt existing systems as their environment evolves.
Specifically, it includes cryptography, privacy, hardware tamper resistance,
firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention and security policies.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 461.  Computer Graphics I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Fundamental concepts of programming for
computer graphics. Graphics devices, languages and algorithms.
Substantial graphics programming projects.
Offered Spring
CSC 463.  Computer Graphics II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 461. Advanced topics in computer graphics. Interactive
graphics, animation, color and three dimensional modeling.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 471.  Compiler Construction I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221, CSC 311 and MAT 361. Introduction to the theory
and practice of compiler construction. Overall structure of compilers.
Lexical and syntactic analysis, code generation for block structured
languages and code optimization.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 481.  Software Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 301, CSC 311 and CSC 321. Introduction to software
engineering, with emphasis on software design and specification. Oral
and written presentations required.
Offered Fall, Spring
206 Computer Science (CSC)
CSC 490.  Senior Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 301, CSC 311 and CSC 321. Intense, structured seminar.
Exposure to current areas of research in Computer Science. Students will
attend department colloquia; conduct research; present individual and
group projects; and, prepare a written proposal for a senior project.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 492.  Senior Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 301, CSC 321 and CSC 481. Intensive study under the
guidance of a member of the Computer Science faculty which continues
and expands the research carried out in Senior Seminar. Students will
study system design and total project planning and management. A
formal written report and oral presentation are required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 495.  Selected Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 is required. Content varies. Advanced topics in
computer science not covered by current course offerings. May be used
for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 497.  Directed Study In Computer Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC CORE or consent of instructor. A project in computer
science carried out on an independent study basis. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
CSC 500.  Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Series of
lectures given by faculty and visiting computer scientists.
Offered Summer
CSC 501.  Design and Analysis of Algorithms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 401. Methods for the design of efficient algorithms:
divide and conquer, greedy method, dynamic programming, backtracking,
brand and bound, problem in string matching, polynomials and matrices,
graph theory, NP-problems.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CSC 511.  Artificial Intelligence and Expert Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 411. Introduction to in-depth engineering approach to
the field of artificial neural networks. Topics include different types of
network architectures and applications, and their properties and behavior.
Offered Fall
CSC 521.  Fundamentals and Concepts of Programming Languages.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 321. Study of the principles that form the basis of
programming language design. Research topics in high-level languages
including : data abstraction, parameterization, scooping, generics,
exception handling, parallelism and concurrency; alternative language
designs; imperative, functional, descriptive, object-oriented and data flow;
overview of interface with support environments.
Offered Spring
CSC 531.  Advanced Computer Architecture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 331. Covering new technological developments,
including details of multiprocessor systems and specialized machines.
The main focus is on the quantitative analysis and cost-performance
tradeoffs in instruction-set, pipeline, and memory design. Description
of real systems and performance data are also presented. Topics
covered: quantitative performance measures, instruction set design,
pipeline, vector processing, memory organization, input/output, and an
introduction to parallel processing.
Offered Fall even
CSC 541.  Advanced Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 341. Theoretical and practical aspects of
operating systems: overview of system software, time-sharing and
multiprogramming operating systems, network operating systems and
the Internet, virtual memory management, inter-process communication
and synchronization, file organization, and case studies. Giving advanced
topics and examples, and simulation techniques used in performance
evaluation.
Offered Fall
CSC 546.  Human Computer Interaction and Interface Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. Research-oriented course; in-depth analyses of
selected current topics with emphasis on problems related to computer
systems, artificial intelligence, and human computer information
interaction and interface design.
Offered Spring
CSC 551.  Data Communications and Computer Networks.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 451. Topics related to the development of clientserver based application, including two-tiers and multi-tiers Client-Server
concepts and programming. Concurrency issues in the design of client
and server programs. Trade-off of different architectures and usage of
remote procedure calls. Broadcasting and multicasting.
Offered Fall odd
CSC 552.  Distributed Computing and Parallel Processing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 451, CSC 401. Comprehensive introduction to the field
of parallel and distributed computing systems: Algorithms, architectures,
networks, systems, theory and applications. The distributed parallel
computation models, design and analysis of parallel algorithms will be
discussed.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 553.  Advanced Database Management Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 453. Provides an in-depth treatment of one or more
advanced topics in the management of information systems. The field of
information systems consists of three major components: information
systems technology, information systems development and information
systems management. Deals with the latter area. Because of the many
advances in information technology and the corresponding development
techniques, new business opportunities are constantly emerging and with
them the need to manage these applications effectively. Explores these
new application areas and the management approaches needed to make
them successful.
Offered Spring odd
CSC 555.  Information Assurance and Network Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 451, CSC 401 and/or consent of instructor. Topics
related to communications and IT infrastructures, their vulnerabilities as
well as the size and complexity of security threats faced by enterprises,
development of security practices, policies, awareness and compliance
programs, and legal and regulatory issues will be examined. Fundamental
encryption algorithms and systems supported in today's IT and secure
communications networks Virtual Private Networks, Tunneling, Secure
Socket Layer, SSH, and PGP will also be examined.
Offered Spring even
CSC 561.  Advanced Computer Graphics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 461. Solid modeling Euler operators, finite element
methods. Rendering: filling, shading, ray tracing. Natural modeling: Lsystems, fractals. Image processing: filtering anti-aliasing, enhancement.
Color: physics, graphics, physiology.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 207
CSC 564.  Numerical Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 361. Topics include numerical solution of partial
differential equations by finite difference and finite element algorithms.
Focus on direct and iterative methods for solving large, sparse linear
systems and related eigenvalue and vector problems. Emphasis is placed
on robust mathematical software and its interaction with computer
hardware and languages.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 565.  Theory of Computation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 401 and MAT 361. Models of computation, complexity
theory, intractable problems, complete problems, recursive function
theory, incompleteness, formal theory of program semantics and
correctness, logics of programs.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 581.  Advanced Software Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. This course focuses on defining software
requirements and provides an overview of advanced analysis and design
techniques that can be used to structure applications. Topics of software
requirements include interacting with end-users to determine needs
and expectations, identifying functional requirements and identifying
performance requirements. Analysis techniques include prototyping,
modeling and simulation. Design topics include design in the system
lifecycle, hardware vs. software trade-offs, subsystem definition and
design, abstraction, information hiding, modularity and reuse.
Offered Spring
CSC 582.  Object-Oriented Analysis and Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. Object-oriented analysis and design is essential
in developing high-quality object-oriented systems. Topics will include
object-oriented classes, attributes, methods and relations to other
classes, objects, classifications and inheritance, encapsulation,
polymorphism, object-oriented analysis, design and programming.
Offered Fall
CSC 583.  Software Engineering Processes.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The course focuses on the engineering of complex
systems that have a strong software component. Topics include deriving
and allocating requirements, system and software architectures, system
analysis and design, integration, interface management, configuration
management, quality, verification and validation, reliability, and risk.
Offered Fall
CSC 584.  Software Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The main topics of this course address the
successful management of a software development project. This
includes planning, scheduling, tracking, cost and size estimating, risk
management, quality engineering, and process improvement. The course
is centered on the concept of a software engineering process and
includes discussion of life cycle models for software development.
Offered Spring
CSC 585.  Advanced Software Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The relationship of software testing to quality is
examined with an emphasis on testing techniques and the role of testing
in the validation of system requirements. Topics include module and
unit testing, integration, code inspection, peer reviews, verification and
validation, statistical testing methods, preventing and detecting errors,
selecting and implementing project metrics and defining test plans and
strategies that map to system requirements. Testing principles, formal
models of testing, performance monitoring and measurement also are
examined.
Offered Fall odd
CSC 590.  Master's Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser.
Offered on the letter-grade basis only. The equivalent of three lecture
hours a week.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 594.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Individual
studies in advanced computer science and technology.
Offered Infrequent
CSC 595.  Special Topics in Computer Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Exposes
students to new and emerging concepts and technologies
Offered Infrequent
CSC 597.  Directed Reading.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
CSC 599.  Master's Thesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser.
Computer research writing of thesis for a master's degree. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
CSC 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Signature of graduate program coordinator required.
Graduate students, who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion for their degree, may attain
continuous enrollment by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
Computer Technology (CTC)
CTC 195.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Topics in computer technology not covered by current course offerings.
May be used for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to
approval.
Offered As needed
CTC 218.  Digital Logic Design.  (3 Units)  
Provides students with a basic understanding of digital device and circuit
fundamentals. The students should be able to analyze and design both
combinational and sequential circuits after completing this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 228.  Introduction to Operating Systems and Networks.  (4 Units)  
Course acquaints students with basic networking concepts such as TCP/
IP, local/wide area networking as well as emerging industry topics such
as Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), Global Information Systems
(GIS), Networked Attached Storage (NAS), and WiMAX.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 295.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Topics in computer technology not covered by current course offerings.
May be used for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to
approval.
Offered As needed
CTC 305.  Introduction to Game and Mobile Programming.  (3 Units)  
This course teaches students through lectures, discussions,
demonstrations, and classroom labs. Students learn the knowledge,
skills, and abilities necessary to create games in the C# programming
language using the Microsoft XNA framework and Silver light.
Offered Fall
208 Computer Technology (CTC)
CTC 310.  Software Project Management.  (3 Units)  
Course will focus on the critical aspects of project management,
including software project management concepts and case studies, and
discuss software project management roadmap, and especially address
linear, incremental, iterative, adaptive and extreme effective software
project management from the perspectives of project scoping, planning,
launching, monitoring, controlling and closing phases.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 316.  Operating Systems and Networks Support.  (3 Units)  
Course provides an introduction to OS and networking support. Topics
include user engineering, risk management, mission assurance, software
process management, enterprise management tools and processes,
disaster recovery, business continuity and information life cycle
management.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 328.  Computer Forensics and Investigation.  (4 Units)  
Course presents methods to properly conduct a computer forensics
investigation, beginning with a discussion of ethics while mapping to
the objectives of the International Association of Computer Investigative
Specialists (IACIS) certification.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 362.  Communication Systems Security.  (3 Units)  
Course provides the foundation for understanding the key issues
associated with protecting information assets, determining the levels of
protection and response to security incidents, and designing a consistent,
reasonable information security system, with appropriate intrusion
detection and reporting features.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 385.  Introduction to Programming.  (3 Units)  
Introduces computing practice first, and then the concept of
programming using block-based and visual (drag-and-drop) programming
language such as Scratch. Students will also be exposed to pseudocode
and algorithm design.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 386.  Computational Thinking and Programming.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 385 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
computational thinking and problem-solving frameworks first, and then
uses Python to teach programming concepts and problem-solving skills.
Ethics in computing is also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 387.  Computer Networks, Communication Devices and Methods.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisites: CTC 386 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
computer system, network and communication devices first, and then
introduces how to identify hardware and software failures, and use
tools to perform diagnosis. Social and legal issues in computing, and
pedagogy in computer science are also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 389.  Data Structures and Software Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 387 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
different data structures and algorithm design principles first, followed
by different software design models. Advanced Python programming
techniques are also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 395.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced topics in computer technology not covered by current course
offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental programs.
Subject to approval.
Offered As needed
CTC 399.  IT Practicum.  (3 Units)  
The technology internship program allows students to gain hands on
experience in a technology environment by spending one semester as
an intern in the Information Technology Department at CSUDH. The
Internship program provides students with the opportunity to gain
technical experience related to their studies, and to prepare for future
career opportunities. CR/NC grading
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 405.  Advanced Game Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Prerequisites: CTC 305 or CSC 123 Students learn the
advanced knowledge in game development including Skills, and the
abilities necessary to create #D games on multiple platforms. The course
includes lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and classroom labs.
Offered Spring
CTC 428.  Operating Systems Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CTC 316 is required. Course takes an in depth look at
operating system security concepts and techniques. It examines
theoretical concepts that make the world of security unique. Also,
this course will adopt a practical hands-on approach when examining
operating system security techniques.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 435.  Fundamentals of Information Technology.  (2 Units)  
This course focuses on the introduction to Python programming
language, handling data, database, operating systems, and network and
security. Students are expected to gain significant theoretical knowledge
of information technology, and know how to write Python programs.
Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 436.  Fundamentals of Networking and Hardware.  (2 Units)  
This course focuses on the introduction of computer hardware systems,
computer network, and wireless networking. Students who enroll
and complete this course are expected to gain significant theoretical
knowledge and hands-on experience of computer hardware and
networking. Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 437.  Fundamentals of Information Security.  (2 Units)  
Introduces students to security, network monitoring and access control,
malicious activity detection, cryptography and security function.
Students who enroll and complete the course are expected to gain
significant theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience of information
security. Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CTC 452.  Network Security and Hacking Prevention.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 or consent of instructor is required. Course
takes an in depth look at network defense concepts and techniques. It
examines theoretical concepts that make the world of networking unique.
This course also adopts a practical hands-on approach when examining
network defense techniques and strategies.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 209
CTC 454.  Wireless Security & Forensics.  (3 Units)  
Examines fundamental topics in wireless technology in wireless
technology, such as planning, designing, installing, securing, using tools,
and forensics. Students will also examine the maintenance, security, and
business applications for wireless Local Area Networks.
Offered Spring
CTC 456.  Enterprise System Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 is required. Students learn to identify and fix
enterprise level network vulnerabilities through the use of existing
defense tools. Students also learn the essential skills and techniques
needed to develop enterprise level network security skills to protect
enterprise's information.
Offered Spring
CTC 458.  Network Security Through Penetration Testing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 is required. Students learn how to determine the
feasibility of a particular set of attack vectors and identify higher-risk
vulnerabilities. students learn through performing penetration tests
against the setup environment using existing tools, techniques, and
programming languages.
Offered Fall
CTC 492.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study under guidance of a member of the Computer Science
Department to complete a project from start to end. Students will study
system design and total project planning and management. A formal
written report and oral presentation will be required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 495.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced topics in computer technology not covered by current course
offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental programs.
Subject to approval.
Offered Fall, Spring
CTC 496.  Internship in Computer Technology.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
CTC 497.  Directed Studies.  (3 Units)  
Software Project Management (CTC 310)
Offered As needed
Criminal Justice (CJA)
CJA 339.  Research Methods and Communication in Criminal Justice
Administration.  (3 Units)  
Presents an overview of the fundamentals of research design in criminal
justice. Students will learn how to design, conduct, and communicate
ethical scientific research. A focus will be placed on academic writing and
oral communication as an iterative process.A grade of C or better in this
course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all Criminal Justice majors and
minors.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 340.  Crim Justice & Community.  (3 Units)  
Political, cultural, and social environment of criminal justice
administration; police community relations; accountability of criminal
justice agencies to the political and legal order.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 341.  Statistics in Criminal Justice Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132 or MAT 195 is required.
Explores statistical procedures used for the analysis of data by
criminal justice professionals. Instruction on the most commonly used
applications of statistical analysis in the administration of justice,
including review of mathematics and statistical functions and the use
of statistics by criminal justice decision makers. An introduction to
computer applications will also be provided.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 342.  Legal and Ethical Foundations of Justice in Criminal Justice
Administration.  (3 Units)  
Local, state, and federal judicial systems; constitutional, judicial and
legislative influences on the administration of justice.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 344.  Theories of Crime and Criminal Justice Policy.  (3 Units)  
Examines theories of crime and criminal justice policy. Covers definitions
of crime, its measurement, and patterns across time and place. This is
used to evaluate historical and contemporary politics in criminal justice
administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 423.  Administrative Law.  (3 Units)  
Role and nature of administrative law, procedural requirements and
judicial review of administrative actions, safeguards against arbitrary
action, delegation of legislative power, legal principles and trends in the
development of public administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 443.  Criminal Law & Justice Admin.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the law of criminal culpability, parties to crime, defenses,
and sentencing issues. Critical analysis of types of crime, elements of
specific crimes, theories of criminal law, and issues pertaining to its
application by the criminal justice system.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 444.  Juvenile Justice Process.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the administration of juvenile justice, including juvenile
justice policies and procedures, and components of the juvenile justice
system. Critical analysis of the theory and dynamics of how the juvenile
justice system responds to juvenile issues, including delinquent behavior.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 445.  Policing & Admin. of Justice.  (3 Units)  
Examination of policing in the United States. Critical analysis of
theories of policing, police administration, and police obligations and
responsibilities under the law. Analysis of historical and contemporary
approaches to police-community relations.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 446.  Terrorism & Extremism.  (3 Units)  
Examination of contemporary terrorism and extremism. Critical analysis
of terrorist behavior, typologies of terrorism, and extremism as a
foundation for terrorist behavior. Analysis of the role of law enforcement
and other public administrative agencies.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 447.  Corrections Administration and Policy.  (3 Units)  
Explores the history, organization, administration and effects of
institutional and community corrections in the United States and abroad.
Critically examines the development and implementation of correctional
administration through analysis of policy and practice at each level.
Offered Fall, Spring
210 Curriculum & Instruction (CUR)
CJA 448.  Forensic Science.  (3 Units)  
Examines the scientific basis of forensic science techniques. Students
will learn to think critically about forensic science, and the legal and
ethical considerations that come with relying on forensic science
evidence in the courtroom
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 449.  Investigative Interviewing, Interrogation and Lie Detection.  (3
Units)  
Scientific research is informing and transforming the practice of
investigative interviewing, interrogation, and lie detection. This course
reviews this research and the ethical considerations and legal decisions
of this work as applied to the practice of criminal justice administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 450.  Eyewitness Evidence and the Law.  (3 Units)  
Criminal Justice administrators are commonly tasked with collecting
and assessing eyewitness evidence. Course focuses on the scientific
research of eyewitness testimony and the legal decisions on eyewitness
evidence as applied to the practice of criminal justice administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 451.  Intelligence and National Security.  (3 Units)  
Explores the history, function, principles, policy guidelines and methods
of collecting intelligence. Central to this course is the use of intelligence
in the United States regarding homeland security, cybersecurity, terrorism,
and organized crime investigations.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 452.  Homeland Security.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to the homeland security environment in the United
States. Emphasis is placed on policies and systems designated to
prevent, respond to, and mitigate incidents. Discussions critically assess
how governments and homeland security agencies respond to domestic
threats.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 460.  Gender, Race and the Administration of Justice.  (3 Units)  
Examines the relationship between race/ethnicity, gender, crime, and
the criminal justice system, including resulting disparities. We analyze
traditional and critical theories of crime, system policies and practices,
and the system as a place of work.
Offered Spring
CJA 490.  Capstone in Criminal Justice Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CJA 339, CJA 340, CJA 342, and CJA 344 are required.
CJA 341, CJA 443, CJA 444 and CJA 447 are recommended. The
capstone experience synthesizes the CJA student's experience at
CSUDH. Integrates CJA coursework with a 120-hour semester-long
internship in criminal justice administration. The course provides
students with an opportunity to directly apply the knowledge gained in
the CJA program to the criminal justice system.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 495.  Special Topics in Criminal Justice Administration.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. An intensive study of an issue,
concept or technique that is related to criminal justice administration.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 496.  Internship in Criminal Justice.  (1-3 Units)  
Under the direction of a faculty of the discipline, students work in a
government or bureaucratic agency of the criminal justice system,
applying the skills and knowledge learned in the classroom.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 540.  Adv. Criminal Justice Issues.  (3 Units)  
This course will introduce students to advance issues relating to the
administration of justice from the perspective of the American criminal
justice system.Â  Emphasis will be placed on policy concerns, crime
and its causes, the structure of the criminal justice system, and criminal
justice procedures.Â Special issues in criminal justice will also be
reviewed.
Offered Infrequent
CJA 563.  Administrative Law, Policy and Analysis.  (3 Units)  
This course shall define the scope and boundaries of administrative law
within the context of public policy. It will introduce students to major
constitutional issues underlying administrative law bodies at the federal,
state, and local levels of government.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 565.  Issues in Police Administration and Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Examination of policing in the US. Critical analysis of theories of policing,
police administration, police obligations, ethics, and responsibilities
under the law. Analysis of historical / contemporary approaches to
ethical community relations.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 566.  Issues in Homeland Security and Terrorism.  (3 Units)  
This course will introduce students to contemporary issues in homeland
security and terrorism. Emphasis will be placed on foundations of
homeland security, threats and vulnerabilities, preparedness / response /
recovery, and evolving issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 595.  Special Topics in Criminal Justice Administration.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing. Intensive study of a specialized area or
contemporary issues in Criminal Justice Administration (e.g. Homeland
Security, Emergency Management, CJA Debates). Three hours of seminar
per week. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
CJA 596.  Internship Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of MPA program coordinator. Supervised internship
working with a cooperating government agency in a function germane
to public administration. Sessions are held to discuss and analyze the
problems with which interns are concerned. A written project related to
the internship is required. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
Curriculum & Instruction (CUR)
CUR 510.  Process of Curriculum Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 505 or GED 501 is required. Designed to review
contemporary developments in curriculum theory and practice through
a framework centered in Critical Theory and Social Justice Education.
Will include experience in the development of units of instruction and the
evaluation of published curriculum materials.
Offered Fall, Spring
CUR 513.  Literature for Child & Adolesc.  (3 Units)  
Principles of instructional and curricular theory as they apply to the
teaching of literature in preschool and grades K-12. Analysis of literary
devices and sequential development of ability to analyze and appreciate
good literature. Emphasizes development of critical and analytic skills in
diverse school environments.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 211
CUR 514.  Trauma and Healing Informed Pedagogy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CUR 510 is recommended. Designed to review
contemporary developments in the theory and practice of trauma
and healing-informed pedagogies. Includes research, reflection, and
innovative design of curriculum and/or school policies to address
adverse childhood experiences in diverse school environments.
Offered Fall even
CUR 515.  Seminar in Curriculum Development in Reading and the
Language Arts.  (3 Units)  
Review of current developments in curriculum theory and practice for
Reading and the Language Arts. Includes development of instructional
units and use of evaluation criteria for published materials. Three hours
of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
CUR 516.  Sem Curr Dev Science Math.  (3 Units)  
Review of current developments in curriculum theory and practices for
science and math. Includes development of instructional units and use
of evaluation criteria for published materials. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Spring
CUR 517.  Sem Curr Dev Hum Soc Sci.  (3 Units)  
Review of current development in curriculum theory and practice for the
humanities and social sciences. Includes development of instructional
units and use of evaluation criteria for published materials. Three hours
of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
CUR 518.  Research for the Teacher Scholar.  (3 Units)  
Development of conceptual and practical understanding of designing
and conducting research and evaluation for education research in a
classroom and education settings. Topics include critical qualitative and
quantitative research, action research, research design, and research
proposal writing.
Offered Fall, Spring
CUR 519.  Adv Stud in Curric Practices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CUR 510. Intensive study and evaluation of research in
selected curriculum areas. Emphasizing designing and implementing
innovative curricular and related instructional improvements. Requires
student to demonstrate effective instructional leadership and problem
solving skills in multiethnic school environments. May be repeated up to
six units.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CUR 520.  Seminar in Ethnic Studies in Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CUR 510 is recommended. Designed to review
contemporary developments in the curriculum theory and instructional
practices through an interdisciplinary lens at the nexus between the fields
of Ethnic Studies and Education. Seminar will provide a comparative
analysis of issues of pedagogy and curriculum and the development of
tools to support educators praxis.
Offered Spring odd
CUR 521.  Seminar in Critical Race Praxis in Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CUR 510 is recommended. Designed to review
contemporary developments in the curriculum theory and instructional
practices through an analytical framework called Critical Race Theory
in Education. Seminar will provide an overview of critical race theory
as it developed in the field of education and will include research,
reflection, and practical applications through curricular and pedagogical
development.
Offered Fall even
CUR 555.  Intro to National Board Prep.  (3 Units)  
This course specifically targets candidates applying for certification by
the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards. These standards
will be utilized throughout the course in establishing what accomplished
teachers should know and be able to do. Students will develop clear and
convincing evidence that Standards are being employed in their own
practice.
Offered Infrequent
CUR 556.  Advan Prep for National Board.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CUR 555 with grade of A or B. This course specifically
provides ongoing, advanced preparation for candidates applying
for certification by the National Board for Professional Teaching
Standards. Students complete portfolio entries based on rigorous
standards published by the Board, including videos, action research and
documentation of effective and reflective practice. Students should be
preparing to take National Board exam during semester in which they
take CUR 556.
Offered Infrequent
CUR 595.  Special Topics in Curriculum & Instruction.  (1-3 Units)  
An examination of a specific topic and/or subject area of the critical
study of education, curriculum, and instruction, language and learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
Cyber Security (CYB)
CYB 501.  Foundation of Information Security.  (3 Units)  
An overview of information security concepts; a basic introduction to
information assurance principles and information security systems and
specific issues pertaining to risk assessment and cyber threats; a brief
examination of the laws governing information security including public
policy and ethical standards.
Offered Fall, Spring
CYB 505.  Practical Cyber Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Restricted to majors. To understand and deal with realworld cyber threats, this course explores the latest development in the
area of cyber security, and provides theory and hands-on practice in
playing with cyber security software and network systems in a laboratory
environment.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CYB 525.  Cybersecurity System Analytics and Automation.  (3 Units)  
Provides theory and hands-on practice in data analytics and threat
intelligence in cybersecurity systems. Explores way to perform analytical
tasks automatically, and solve cryptography, intrusion detection,
automation, log creation, log management and other problems in
cybersecurity.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CYB 528.  Foundations of Cyber Forensics.  (3 Units)  
Presents a high level introduction of Cyber Forensics including the
different approaches in computer forensics investigation. Covers the
ethics as it is mapped to the objectives of the Center of Academic
Excellence in Cybersecurity.
Offered Spring
CYB 529.  Advanced Cyber Forensics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CYB 528 is required. Provides advanced case examples
in digital forensics. Provides understanding of everyday issues in
real investigations such as technical, logistical, and legal challenges.
Presents advanced methodologies and proven practices applied in digital
investigations.
Offered Infrequent
212 Dance (DAN)
CYB 535.  CyberOps and Cloud DevSecOps.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: restricted to majors. Provides theory and hands-on practice
on day-to-day, tactical knowledge and skills that Security Operations
Center teams need to detect and respond to cybersecurity threats.
Main topics include security monitoring, host-based analysis, intrusion
analysis, and security policies and procedures.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
CYB 538.  Information Security Policy and Procedure.  (3 Units)  
Examines the legal concepts, principles and theories of public policy as
they apply to information technology. A review of the American system
with its federal and state levels will be studied to provide students
with the necessary legal background in which the world of Information
Technology functions. A special emphasis will be placed on compliance
issues, Cyber laws, and regulations.
Offered Fall
CYB 548.  Advanced OS Security.  (3 Units)  
A study of the challenges involved in the design and implementation of a
secure operating system. Identify security threats and monitor operating
system security implementations; learn how to configure operating
systems to meet security standards using best practices.
Offered Summer
CYB 551.  Data Communications and Computer Networks.  (3 Units)  
A comprehensive survey of the computer communication and field
including data communication concepts and categories, communications
switching and routine, network configuration and management. Topics
also include layered network models and protocol.
Offered Spring
CYB 552.  Advanced Hacking Prevention.  (3 Units)  
To evaluate advanced hacks and methods of defense fortification.
Provides more advanced network defense concepts and techniques.
Covers more detailed theoretical concepts in networking. State-of-the-art
techniques and tools will be used to learn how to protect network.
Offered Fall
CYB 555.  Information Assurance and Network Security.  (3 Units)  
Students will examine the concepts and topics in network security and
information assurance. Through this course, students will conduct a CRT
(Capture The Flag) exercise, and learn more about security threats, secure
socket layer, SSH, Tunneling, PGP, encryption algorithm, vulnerabilities
and other related topics.
Offered Spring
CYB 562.  Advanced Communication System Security.  (3 Units)  
The course covers more advanced security life-cycle of products and
services; it will go beyond requirements and policy development and
progressing through the actual development, deployment an operations.
This course will also provide advanced methods regarding the issues
associated with protecting information assets.
Offered Infrequent
CYB 572.  Secure Cloud Computing.  (3 Units)  
Students will learn four cloud service models: IaaS-Infrastructure as a
Service, PaaS-Platform as a Service, SaaS-Software as a Service and
BpaaS-Business Process as a Service. This course will also cover topics
related to big data, and challenges resulting from the implementation of
high computing performances.
Offered Summer
CYB 584.  Software Project Planning and Management.  (3 Units)  
Students will learn to build a software project and manage it
professionally. Additionally, they will be expected to devise a plan with a
schedule of finished products, a tracking system to monitor the building
process of the project, and a risk management assessment.
Offered Fall
CYB 590.  Graduate Project.  (3 Units)  
Capstone course. Students are required to submit and present a
semester long project. Students will develop their own cyber security
project, devise hypotheses related to their study, gather data to support
their hypotheses, and present the results.
Offered Fall, Spring
CYB 595.  Special Topics in Cyber Security.  (3 Units)  
Advanced topics in cyber security not covered by current course
offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental programs.
Subject to approval. Consent required.
Offered Fall, Spring
CYB 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Signature of graduate program coordinator required.
Graduate students, who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion for their degree, may attain
continuous enrollment by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
Dance (DAN)
DAN 110.  Dance of World Cultures.  (1 Units)  
Introduction to a variety of ethnic and social dance forms; and
appreciation of their historical and cultural origins. Repeatable for credit.
Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 120.  Tap Dance.  (1 Units)  
Development of proficiency in performing elementary tap technique with
emphasis on skills, steps, combinations and terminology. Appreciation of
the origin and evolution of tap dance. Repeatable for credit. Two hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall
DAN 125.  Tap Dance II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 120 or permission from instructor. Develop proficiency
in performing beginning intermediate tap technique with emphasis
on skills, steps, combinations and terminology. Be able to speak and
write appropriate vocabulary steps when necessary, and gain a further
appreciation of the origin and evolution of tap dance and current tap
trends.
Offered As needed
DAN 130.  Global Dance Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
Global Dance Perspectives provides an understanding and appreciation
of dances from all cultures of the world as an expression of people's
imaginative and creative urges/ Diversity in dance is explored through a
global perspective addressing social, cultural, and historical topics.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
DAN 200.  Jazz I.  (2 Units)  
Development of proficiency in performing beginning jazz dance
technique. Emphasis on theory, terminology, steps and combinations
in a variety of jazz styles. Appreciation of origin and evolution of jazz.
Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 213
DAN 205.  Jazz II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 200 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing beginning jazz dance technique. Emphasis
on theory, terminology, steps and combinations in a variety of jazz styles.
Appreciation of origin and evolution of jazz. Repeatable for credit. Four
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall
DAN 210.  Ballet I.  (2 Units)  
Development of proficiency in performing elementary ballet technique.
Emphasis on basic theory, positions, steps, combinations and French
terminology. Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for credit.
Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 215.  Ballet II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 210 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing elementary ballet technique. Emphasis on
basic theory, positions, steps, combinations and French terminology.
Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 220.  Modern Dance I.  (2 Units)  
Development of proficiency in performing beginning modern dance
technique. Emphasis on basic technical development, movement
theories, movement phrasing and terminology. Appreciation of basic
movement discoveries of early pioneers in modern dance, and of modern
dance as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall
DAN 225.  Modern Dance II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 220 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing beginning modern dance technique.
Emphasis on basic technical development, movement theories,
movement phrasing and terminology. Appreciation of basic movement
discoveries of early pioneers in modern dance, and of modern dance as
an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall
DAN 230.  Dance Touring Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: Enrollment in a Dance Technique class. Dance Touring
Ensemble members will discover and cultivate their own talents as
performers and educators. Multiple performances will be held during the
semester. Auditions and an Interview will be required.
Offered All terms
DAN 300.  Jazz III.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 205 or consent of instructor. Development of
proficiency in performing intermediate jazz dance technique. Emphasis
on theory, terminology, steps and combinations in a variety of jazz styles.
Appreciation of the origin and evolution of jazz. Repeatable for credit.
Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DAN 305.  Jazz IV.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 300 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing intermediate jazz dance technique. Emphasis
on theory, terminology, steps and combinations in a variety of jazz styles.
Appreciation of the origin and evolution of jazz. Repeatable for credit.
Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DAN 310.  Ballet III.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 215 or consent of instructor. Development of
proficiency in performing intermediate ballet technique. Emphasis
on theory, positions, steps, combinations and French terminology.
Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 315.  Ballet IV.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 310 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing intermediate ballet technique. Emphasis
on theory, positions, steps, combinations and French terminology.
Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 320.  Modern Dance III.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 225 or consent of instructor. Development of
proficiency in performing intermediate modern dance technique.
Emphasis on intermediate technical development, movement theories,
movement phrasing and terminology. Appreciation of intermediate
movement discoveries of early pioneers in modern dance, and of modern
dance as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
DAN 325.  Modern Dance IV.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division class standing; KIN 448 is recommended.
Planned internship in alternative dance careers at a cooperating
institution, agency, organization or company under professional
supervision. Application of principles and skills acquired in student's
chosen professional preparation program.
Offered Spring
DAN 330.  Dance Composition I.  (2 Units)  
Use of improvisation in choreography as an introduction to structural
form; individual and group problems.
Offered Fall
DAN 335.  Dance Composition II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 330 Co-requisite: Concurrent enrollment in a dance
technique class. Theory and practice in the immediate elements of dance
composition.
Offered Spring
DAN 340.  Dance Production.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 330 and DAN 335 or consent of instructor. Designed
to teach students how to coordinate and produce a dance concert.
Emphasis on technical aspects of dance production such as lighting
design, costume design and construction, recording sound, applying
dance makeup, staging dances, and concert publicity and promotion.
Repeatable for credit. Three hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DAN 345.  Rhythmic Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites; DAN 330. Basic music exploration of simple and complex
rhythmic patterns, time, styles, and a brief survey of the historical periods
and styles of music used in wester and non-western cultures.
Offered Fall even
DAN 355.  Forces and Figures in Dance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 130 required. Survey of the historical development of
dance from the 18th century to the 21st centuries.
Offered Spring even
214 Design (DGN)
DAN 375.  Dance Kinesiology & wellness.  (1 Units)  
Investigation of the kinesiology and physiology of the human body as it
relates to dance. Students will develop a basic understanding of human
anatomy, the biomechanics of human movement, and wellness concerns
as they relate to dance.
Offered Spring
DAN 385.  Somatics and Conditioning.  (3 Units)  
The discipline of somatic studies emphasizing the unity of mind and
body, and an integrated experience from within, through conscious guided
movement and opportunities for increased self-awareness.
Offered As needed
DAN 395.  Dance Pedagogy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 205, DAN 315, DAN 325, DAN 335 or permission of
instructor, Dance Pedagogy explores the art and instructional methods of
teaching dance technique and choreography.
Offered As needed
DAN 410.  Ballet V.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 315 or consent of instructor. Development of
proficiency in performing intermediate-advanced ballet technique.
Emphasis on intermediate-advanced theory, positions, combinations and
French terminology. Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for
credit. Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DAN 415.  Ballet VI.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 410 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing intermediate- advanced ballet technique.
Emphasis on intermediate-advanced theory, positions, combinations and
French terminology. Appreciation of ballet as an art form. Repeatable for
credit. Four hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DAN 420.  Modern Dance V.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 325 or consent of instructor. Development of
proficiency in performing intermediate-advanced modern dance
technique. Emphasis on intermediate-advanced technical development,
movement theories, movement phrasing and terminology. Appreciation of
movement discoveries of contemporary modern dancers, and of modern
dance as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
DAN 425.  Modern Dance VI.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: DAN 420 or consent of instructor. Continuing development
of proficiency in performing intermediate-advanced modern dance
technique. Emphasis on intermediate-advanced technical development,
movement theories, movement phrasing and terminology. Appreciation of
movement discoveries of contemporary modern dancers, and of modern
dance as an art form. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
DAN 430.  Dance Composition III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 330, and DAN 335 required. Co-requisites: Concurrent
enrollment in a dance technique class. Development of theme and style in
a dance technique class.
Offered Fall
DAN 440.  Dance for Children.  (3 Units)  
Study of developmentally appropriate creative movement experiences
for children. Examination of teaching methodology designed to develop
foundational movement skills, artistic exploration of movement elements,
improvisational techniques, imagination and creativity, and how these
learning activities can be taught across the curriculum.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
DAN 450.  Musical Theatre Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 203, DAN 315, DAN 325, DAN 335 or permission of
instructor, Musical Theatre Studies is an exploration of American Musical
Theatre, Students will study the work of the actor/singer/dancer and
develop as performers.
Offered As needed
DAN 480.  Dance Rehearsal & Performance.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: DAN 200, DAN 205, DAN 210, DAN 215, DAN 220, DAN 225
are recommended. Participation as a performer and/or choreographer
in a Dance Program approved, University sponsored production. Concert
participation is by audition only. Repeatable for credit. Four hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced study in dance, with each student participating in a special
project mutually agreed upon by student and instructor.
Offered Fall, Spring
DAN 495.  Special Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
Intensive study of a dance topic of current interest. May be repeated for
credit to a maximum of 6.0 units.
Offered Infrequent
DAN 496.  Internship in Dance.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Collaborative production activity on
various projects in the digital media arts curriculum. Repeatable for credit
for up to three units. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
DAN 499.  Senior Dance Thesis.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: Dan 430 or permission of instructor. Co-requisite: DAN 340
A capstone course culminating in the production of a final, collaborative
project. Selected in consultation with and evaluated by a faculty panel.
Restricted to seniors.
Offered Spring
Design (DGN)
DGN 110.  Intro to Design Applications.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to digital imaging using Adobe Photoshop and to vector
based art using Adobe Illustrator. Six hours of activity in-class an online
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DGN 310.  Graphic Design 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 110. Introduction to graphic design as a form of
visual communication through the use of type, image and form. Projects
explore design processes, creative problem solving, and the basic design
practices of critiques and discussion. Six hours of activity per week. Fee
required.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 215
DGN 320.  Typography 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 160 and ART 170. Introduction to basic aspects of
letterforms and typography through a variety of projects. Introduction to
the historical background, technical considerations, and aesthetic issues
of typography. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall
DGN 330.  Motion Design 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN or DMA 310 or consent of instructor. Introduction
to the principles and or elements of motion design. Emphasis on the
relationship between typographic principles and fundamentals of
animation. Software: Introduction to Adobe After Effects. Six hours of
activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall
DGN 340.  Web Design 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DGN 310 or consent of instructor. Introduction and
exploration of the concepts and technologies in web design. Individual
and team projects address navigational structures, systems, identity,
audience and intent in the design of website prototypes. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall
DGN 345.  Illustration 1.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ART 179 is required; DGN 110 is recommended.
Introduction to illustration, with an emphasis on craftsmanship, as
well as learning and employing the illustration process. Explores many
aspects of the illustration field, giving students a broad view of the
discipline, The skills studied will provide a foundation for fork in both
illustration and animation. Students will explore personal artistic voice,
techniques, design, and visual narrative.
Offered Fall
DGN 410.  Graphic Design 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 310 is required. Advanced study of graphic design
principles and their application to more complex and comprehensive
solutions. Course examines the integration of design with civic
engagement, through the completion of an awareness campaign
addressing social issues. Students work collaboratively on semester long
campaign. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
DGN 420.  Typography 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ART 347 is required. Advanced analysis and study of
typographic design through projects based on the setting of words,
sentences and paragraphs. Projects will gradually increase in scope and
complexity dealing with multiple levels of hierarchical meaning. Six hours
of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
DGN 430.  Motion Design 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 330. Advanced concepts of motion design as they
relate to the use of Adobe After Effects and Cinema 4D. Students will
work independently on individual projects from concept to final output.
Repeatable course. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
DGN 440.  Web Design II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DGN 340 is required. Intermediate to advanced course
in web design, offering in-depth investigation of the planning, design
and building of web sites. This course is structured around projects that
combine creative exploration and comprehensively learning industrystandard software programs. Six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
DGN 445.  Illustration 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 345 is required. DGN 110 is recommended.
Intermediate elective in illustration focuses on craftsman ship.
Reinforces the illustration process learned in level 1. Students will explore
multiple areas within illustration, creating several advanced projects,
with an emphasis on narrative in illustration as it relates to editorial,
publishing, and visual development for animation. Students will build
their portfolios and refine their personal artistic voice. Repeatable for
credit.
Offered Spring, Summer
DGN 450.  Interactive Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 440 is required. This class will show how to build
apps and user base responsive design (UX). Students will gain an
understanding of the javascript programming language and explore the
most current technologies available. Six hours of activity per week. Fee
required.
Offered Spring
DGN 460.  Portfolio 1 and Internship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior standing and consent of instructor required. Students
will identify and research their career objectives, design their visual
identity, start working on their professional portfolio and find and confirm
an internship of a minimum of 70 hours to be completed by the end of
Portfolio part II. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall
DGN 470.  Portfolio 2 and Internship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and consent of instructor. Capstone
course involving preparation of essential material for seeking a position
in graphic design. Emphasizes the preparation of a graphic design
portfolio and resume. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Spring
DGN 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Individual students will consult with a Design faculty to conduct an
independent project in Design. Restricted to juniors and seniors.
Department consent required.
Offered As needed
DGN 495.  Selected/Variable Topics in Design.  (3 Units)  
Detailed study Design. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
DGN 496.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Internship in a Design related field, both on campus and externally.
Restricted to juniors and seniors. Department consent required.
Offered As needed
Digital Media Arts (DMA)
DMA 195.  Special Topics in Music.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered As needed
DMA 300.  Digital Technology, Culture and the Arts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUM 200 or consent of instructor. Survey of the impact of
digital technology on culture and the arts including but not limited to the
visual arts, music, dance, video, film, literature, and theatre.
Offered Fall
216 Digital Media Arts (DMA)
DMA 310.  Tools and Techniques in Digital Media Production.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Must have junior standing or consent of instructor.
Introduction and examination of the fundamental software and hardware
tools used in the production of media for digital delivery. Emphasis on
creative production techniques and the development of skills required in
the digital media industry. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 320.  TV Directing I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: Concurrent enrollment in DMA 323 and DMA 328.
Fundamental techniques in producing and directing multi-camera
television productions in the studio, and single-camera, film-style
programs on location. Emphasis on producer/director skills for
performance-based productions in the studio and on location. Six hours
of activity per week. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
DMA 322.  TV Directing II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 310, DMA 320, DMA 323, and DMA 328 are required.
Advanced techniques in producing and directing multi-camera television
productions and single-camera, film-style programs in the studio and
on location. Emphasis on producer/director skills for drama-based
productions. Six hours of activity per week. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
DMA 323.  TV Crew Production.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: Concurrent enrollment in DMA 328 and either DMA 320 or
DMA 322. Participation in a variety of crew assignments on production
projects in the studio and on location. Repeatable for credit. Six hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 324.  TV Titling and Animation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 310 is required. Introduction to computer-generated
titles and basic, two-dimensional animation for television production.
Students will explore the aesthetics of graphic design elements for the
screen and related software programs. Six hours of activity per week.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
DMA 325.  EFP Videography.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 310, DMA 320, DMA 323, and DMA 328 are required.
Restricted to majors. Application of professional-format videotape
recording techniques used in location shooting. Emphasis on using
portable lighting systems, reflectors, and location sound recording
techniques. Experience in technical aspects of equipment setup, system
trouble shooting, and preventative maintenance. Six hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
DMA 326.  TV Sound Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 310, DMA 320, DMA 323, and DMA 328 are required.
Use of synthesizers, samplers, and MIDI for music scoring, sound effects
drop-ins, ADR, and foley in television and stage productions. Six hours of
activity per week.Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
DMA 327.  Independent TV Production.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 322 and DMA 323. Aspects of producing television
features on an independent-producer basis. Practice in pre-production
coordination, location shooting, directing, and editing techniques in the
production of a broadcast-quality feature segment for public airing on the
University cable TV channel. Repeatable for credit. Six hours of activity
per week.
Offered Spring
DMA 328.  DSLR Video Production.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: DMA 320 and DMA 323 are required. Introduction to the
theory and practice of using DSLR photo cameras for video production.
Students will learn fundamental techniques for lighting, proper exposure,
camera movement, audio recording, and video editing.
Offered Fall
DMA 330.  Audio Recording.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Junior standing or consent of instructor. Theory and
practice of sound recording. Acoustics, psychacoustics, microphones
and microphone techniques, consoles, mixers, signal processing and
multi-track recording techniques.
Offered Fall
DMA 331.  Audio Recording Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Previous or concurrent enrollment in DMA 330. Hands-on
experience in studio recording using Pro Tools HD. Live mix to stereo
techniques and fundamentals of studio flow path. Three hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
DMA 335.  Music Synthesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Junior standing or consent of instructor. Production
techniques, equipment, theory, and history of electro-acoustic music with
an emphasis on MIDI. Psychoacoustics and a conceptual approach to
electronic music production using a variety of MIDI-based software.
Offered Fall
DMA 336.  Music Synthesis Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Previous or concurrent enrollment in DMA 335. Hands-on
experience in production using hardware and software synthesizers and
MIDI in conjunction with Pro Tools, Digital Performer, Reason, and various
sequencers for a variety of musical styles. Three hours of laboratory per
week.
Offered Fall
DMA 346.  Digital Media Prod Workshop.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Investigation of a single topic,
chosen in consultation with a faculty member, culminating in a paper,
presentation, or creative project. Repeatable for credit for up to six units.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
DMA 400.  Strategies for Digital Media Delivery.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 310. Advanced exploration into the methods and
mechanics of informational and entertainment design and delivery.
Evaluation of media production strategies including linear and non-linear
scripting, conditional branching, and virtual reality via online, optical disc,
and hybrid formats
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 410.  Media Arts Projects.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites; DMA 320 required. Experience in producing client-based
projects for a variety of campus, corporate, or community organizations.
Students participate in a variety of activities ranging from video coverage
and live sound reinforcement of campus events to writing, filming,
recording and editing client-based projects.
Offered Spring
DMA 430.  Advanced Audio Recording.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 330 and consent of instructor. A continuation of
DMA 330 incorporating digital audio workstations and associated
peripheral equipment, signal processing and mastering for optical disc
and web delivery, console automation, 5.1 surround mixing techniques,
and DVD audio.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 217
DMA 431.  Advanced Audio Recording Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Previous or concurrent enrollment in DMA 430 and consent
of instructor. Practical multi-track session work featuring increased
access to studio facilities for individual and group recording projects
using Pro Tools HD in conjunction with analog console and Digidesign
Command 8 control surface. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
DMA 432.  Recording Studio Maintenance.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 331 and concurrent enrollment in DMA 433 is
recommended. Installation, maintenance, trouble shooting, and repair
of professional audio equipment in a studio environment. Repeatable
course.
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 433.  Recording Studio Maintenance Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 331 and previous or concurrent enrollment in
DMA 432. Installation, maintenance, trouble shooting, and repair of
professional audio equipment in a studio environment. Repeatable
course. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 435.  Advanced Music Synthesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 335 and consent of instructor. A continuation of
DMA 335. Synthesizer and sampler sound design using a variety of
synthesis strategies and concepts. Direct software and hardware sound
synthesis theory using software synthesizers such as Tassman and
Reason, modular synthesizers and MIDI.
Offered Spring
DMA 436.  Advanced Music Synthesis Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Previous or concurrent enrollment in DMA 435 and consent
of instructor. Experience in programming a variety of digital synthesizers
including Tassman, Reason, FN-7, and Motu software synthesizers. Three
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
DMA 438.  Music Production.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite:DMA 330, DMA 331 and DMA 431 are required. Analysis
of recordings in music production. Spatial and timbral ear-training
techniques for recording engineers and producers. Access to Pro Tools
HD 5.1 surround system and a variety of engineering and production
topics which include surround mixing techniques, advanced microphone
techniques, DVD Audio specifications, and DVD authoring. Restricted to
majors.
Offered Fall, Summer
DMA 439.  Music Production Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 330, DMA 331, DMA 430 and DMA 431 are required.
Practice in the production of studio recordings. Responsibility for music
composition and arrangements, rehearsal, performance, studio and
musician bookings, artist promotion, engineering assistance and artistic
direction and management. Interdisciplinary projects involving video or
theatre are also possible. Repeatable course. Three hours of laboratory
per week. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Summer
DMA 447.  Audio Projects Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 331 and DMA 431. Advanced studio session work
culminating in passing the Audio Recording Proficiency Exam
Offered Infrequent
DMA 450.  Computer Music.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 435 and consent of instructor. Advanced studies in
computer applications in music. Course concentrates on CSOUND and
new technologies. Topics will vary with new innovations in the field.
Students will have access to Pro Tools LE workstations for individual
projects. A-C/NC grading.
Offered Summer
DMA 452.  Audio Production.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 430 and DMA 431 are required. Advanced skills in
integrating audio production components of voice over, music, and sound
effects with graphics, motion graphics and video on multi-media projects
that include proposal, interactive design, audio recording, music mixing,
mastering, and encoding and authoring to optical disc.
Offered Fall
DMA 456.  Mixing and Mastering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 438 and DMA 439 are required. Theory and practice
in various styles of mixing and mastering popular music. Application of
panning, equalization, dynamics processing, spatial effects, modulation
effects, automation, song sequencing and methods for final delivery.
Hardware-based instruction. ITB digital methods and hybrid workflows.
Offered Spring
DMA 460.  Digital Audio Workstation Concepts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: DMA 435 and DMA 436 are required. Theory and practice
of operating a Digital Audio Workstation using a variety of software
programs. Experience in recording session set-ups, grouping, touting
techniques, MIDI composition and editing, song structuring, an editing
and mixing scenarios for outputting stereo stem mixes.
Offered Fall
DMA 490.  Senior Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DMA 331 and DMA 431. Research projects, chosen in
consultation with the instructor, culminating in a paper, presentation, or
creative project.
Offered Infrequent
DMA 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Traditional and modern approaches to the study of language.
Fundamentals of phonology and grammar.
Offered Fall, Spring
DMA 495.  Special Topics in DMA.  (3 Units)  
Study of a single topic or contemporary issue in the entertainment
industry of television, film, music, or digital media to be determined by the
instructor. Repeatable for credit. Repeatable 3 times for a maximum of 9
units.
Offered Infrequent
DMA 496.  Internship in the Media.  (1-3 Units)  
Directed work experience in the television, film, music, or digital media
industry under the supervision of a professionally-qualified mentor. CR/
NC grading only. Repeatable for credit. Ten hours of work experience per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
DMA 499.  Senior Proj Digital Media.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior standing or consent of instructor. A capstone
course culminating in the production of a final, collaborative project in
conjunction with students from other program options in Digital Media
Arts. Selected in consultation with and evaluated by a faculty panel.
Offered Fall, Spring
218 Dual Language Learning (DLL)
Dual Language Learning (DLL)
DLL 520.  Foundations of Critical (Bi) Literacy in Dual Language &
Immersion Education.  (3 Units)  
Explores critical approaches to (bi)literacy instruction in dual language
classrooms with attention to literacy learning experiences of LatinX
students in U.S. PreK-12 schools. Students will develop a research study
to disentangle the sociocultural aspects of literacy learning. Course
taught in Spanish.
Offered Fall
DLL 521.  Contrastive Linguistics and Assessment for Dual Language
Educators.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on the contrastive analysis of the structures of the Spanish and
English languages through the disciplines of Phonology, Morphology,
Semantics and Syntax to address issues related to (1) dialectal variation
in Spanish and English and (2) linguistic and educational assessments of
levels of language acquisition of Spanish and English.
Offered Fall
DLL 523.  Academic Discourse and Socio-Emotional Learning.  (3 Units)  
Course is designed to prepare teachers to think deeply and critically
as to how content is taught using academic/professional Spanish as
instructors in dual language programs in elementary and secondary
schools. The course will also examine issues and interventions related to
the social-emotional growth and development of children and youth and
encourage reflection on school and community practices. Course taught
in Spanish.
Offered Spring
DLL 524.  Emergent Learning for Young Dual Language Learners.  (3
Units)  
To foster leadership skills in elementary bilingual teachers in dual
language instruction, research-based practices in dual immersion
programs, curriculum design, culturally responsive instructional practice
and assessment appropriate for young children. Course taught in
Spanish.
Offered Spring
DLL 525.  Practices and Strategies for Bi-Literacy Development in
Bilingual/Dual Settings.  (3 Units)  
Course is designed to prepare teachers to be leaders in the field of
curriculum design and professional development in dual language
instruction in elementary and secondary schools. The focus of the course
is on the best practices that develop bi-literacy. Participants will plan and
develop curricula both in Spanish and/or sheltered English based on the
principles of dual language. Course taught in Spanish.
Offered Spring
Early Start English (ESE)
ESE 1.  Early Start English.  (1 Units)  
Provides students with an opportunity to: practice critical reading
and writing necessary for success in college-level classes; engage
in discussions in an academic discourse; strengthen grammatical
and mechanical skills; and learn appropriate resources and standards
important to success in English classes.
Offered Summer
ESE 88.  Early Start Developmental Reading.  (3 Units)  
Intensive work in basic reading and writing skills with emphasis on
college-level reading and writing. CSU English Placement Test scores of
T-141 or below are required to complete this course prior to enrolling in
ENG 110. May be taken concurrently with ESE 099. Graded CR/NC.
Offered Summer
ESE 95.  Special Topics in Writing.  (1 Units)  
Co-Requisite: ESE 195 is required. Workshop model classes provide
additional instruction and practice in course content and objectives.
Offered Summer
ESE 99.  Early Start Basic Writing Workshop.  (3 Units)  
English Placement Test T-scores of T-141 or lower. Focus on clear, correct
sentences, with an introduction to paragraphing in the context of the
essay. Essays concentrate on narrative and personal experience leading
to critical exposition. May be taken concurrently with ESE 088. Graded
CR/NC.
Offered Summer
ESE 195.  Special Topics in Writing.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: ESE 095 is required. CSU Placement Category III and IV.
Intensive six-week course introduces students to college writing terms,
concepts, and practices.
Offered Summer
Early Start Mathematics (ESM)
ESM 3.  Early Start Beginning Algebra.  (3 Units)  
Integers, rational and real numbers, basic algebraic expressions,
ratio, percent, solutions and graphs of linear equations, inequalities,
polynomials, applications. Does not count for Bachelor's degree. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Summer
ESM 11.  Early Start Algebra Review Part 1.  (1 Units)  
Units of measurement, arithmetic with signed numbers and fractions,
word problems, linear equations, applications. Does not count for
Bachelor's degree. CR/NC grading.
Offered Summer
ESM 95.  Selected Topics.  (3 Units)  
A course in a topic of special interest to both faculty and students for
which no current course exists. Topic will be announced in schedule of
classes. Repeatable for credit. CR/NC grading
Offered As needed
Earth Sciences (EAR)
EAR 100.  Physical Geology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in EAR 101 is recommended.
Volcanoes, earthquakes, oceanic processes and continental drift. Rock
and mineral identification is enhanced by concurrent enrollment in
EAR 101. Meets certain general studies requirements, is fundamental to
the Geology major, and has wide-ranging applications in art, commerce,
public policy, and science. Field Trip.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 219
EAR 101.  Physical Geology Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in EAR 100 is recommended. Nature
and origin of rocks and minerals through determination of physical
properties of specimens. Topographic and geologic map analysis.
Geological features from stereoscopic air photos. Recommended elective
for students interested in the outdoors, archaeology, mineral deposits,
land use, and natural hazards.
Offered Fall, Spring
EAR 200.  Earth History and Evolution.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: EAR 100, EAR 101, and concurrent enrollment in EAR 201.
This course covers the evolution of the Earth's dynamic systems and
their record through geologic time. Emphasizes interactions between
the physical, chemical, and biological components of the Earth system.
Includes development of the geologic time scale, origin of the planet,
early life, biological evolution, the fossil record, mass extinctions, and
climate change.
Offered Spring even
EAR 201.  Earth History Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in EAR 200. Laboratory analysis
of depositional processes and ancient environments. Topics include
radiometric dating, geologic maps, facies analysis, fossil records, and
stratigraphic correlations. Three hours of laboratory per week
Offered Spring even
EAR 312.  Natural Disasters.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. Examines
the impact of natural events on human activities and vice versa.
Mankind's uneasy relationship with atmosphere, oceans and not-so-solid
Earth. Examines the study of earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, landslides,
tsunamis, climate change, hurricanes, tornadoes, and wildfires.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
EAR 370.  The World Ocean.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: EAR 100 or GEO 200 is recommended. This course
introduces global oceanographic phenomena and emphasizes the
interdisciplinary nature of ocean processes, including the ocean¿s role
in regulating Earth¿s climate. Topics include the physical and chemical
characteristics of seawater, and the vertical and spatial distributions
of temperature, salinity, gases, and density; surface and deep-water
circulations
Offered Spring odd
EAR 376.  Field Mapping.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: EAR 100 and EAR 101 are required, or consent of instructor.
Introduction to geological and environmental field mapping. Techniques
include working with topographic maps and remotely-sensed images,
use of Brunton compass traverse methods, and interpretation of
sedimentary rocks and geological structures (faults, folds). Applications
to geotechnical work, resource management, environmental and
archaeological surveys, and outdoor education activities. Eight hours of
laboratory and one-half hour of lecture per week.
Offered Spring even
EAR 410.  Environmental Geology.  (3 Units)  
Study of human interaction with the geologic environment. Mitigating
exposure to geological hazards (earthquakes, volcanic eruptions,
landslides); environmental consequences of geological resource
(fossil fuels, minerals, water) extraction and consumption; surface and
groundwater contamination; acid rain; climate change; waste burial.
Offered Spring odd
EAR 416.  Earth Science for Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of lower division General Education. Study
of planet Earth featuring units in geology, oceanography, weather, and
astronomy, as appropriate for elementary and secondary school teachers.
Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
EAR 450.  Plate Tectonics and the Rock Cycle.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: EAR 100 and EAR 101 are required. Study of plate tectonic
processes and how they relate to the formation of rocks and the rock
cycle. Includes earthquakes, volcanic activity, hot spots and plate
boundary types.
Offered Fall even
EAR 460.  Global Change.  (3 Units)  
An interdisciplinary introduction to the science of understanding global
change natural as well as anthropogenically induced. Key topics include
the physical climate system and its variability, the carbon cycle, land and
water issues, and the impact of global change on society.
Offered Fall even
EAR 476.  Groundwater.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: EAR 100 and EAR 101 are required. CHE 108 or CHE 110
is recommended. Study of the movement of underground water through
geological layers. Topics include the geological characteristics of
aquifers, wells, and connectivity with surface water resources. Includes
groundwater chemistry and contaminant transport, plus considerations
for the management of groundwater resources.
Offered Fall even
EAR 478.  Engineering Geology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: EAR 450. Evaluation and abatement of geologic hazards
affecting construction projects and land use. Landslides, groundwater
pollution, subsidence, flooding, and earthquake effects. Mechanical
properties of rocks and soils. Case histories and site investigations.
Application to business, law, construction engineering and environmental
studies. Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
EAR 490.  Sr Sem In Earth Sciences.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior standing in Earth Sciences or consent of instructor.
Study and discussion of current research in Earth Sciences. Techniques
of oral presentation, library research and preparation of audiovisual
materials. One hour of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
EAR 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Independent study of a particular
earth science or environmental topic under the supervision of an Earth
Science faculty member.
Offered Fall, Spring
EAR 495.  Advanced Top In Ear Sci.  (3 Units)  
Selected topics in Earth Science with course content to be determined by
instructor. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
EAR 496.  Internship In Earth Sci.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Employment as an assistant or
volunteer in an earth sciences-related firm or government agency.
Course may run at time convenient to student and employers, including
summer. Student should contact Department faculty three months prior
to enrollment. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
220 Economics (ECO)
EAR 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Research of a particular earth science
or environmental problem under the direction of an Earth Science faculty
member.
Offered Fall, Spring
Economics (ECO)
ECO 200.  Contemporary Econ Issues.  (3 Units)  
An examination of contemporary economic institutions, issues, and
problems as they affect various groups in our society. Familiarization
with basic analytical tools and techniques necessary for studying current
issues.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 210.  Economic Theory 1A Micro.  (3 Units)  
Introductory microeconomic theory; resource allocation, output
determination; production theory, income distribution.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ECO 211.  Economic Theory 1B Macro.  (3 Units)  
Introductory macroeconomic theory; national income accounting,
national income determination, monetary and fiscal policy.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ECO 230.  Statistics For Economists.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to probability theory, estimation of population proportions,
means, variances, hypothesis tests, statistical inference and decisionmaking using multivariate analysis, basic regression analysis, and
Bayesean techniques; computer assisted workshops/studies.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 310.  Intermed Microeconomics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ECO 210. Role of prices in product and factor markets,
principles of production and costs, business behavior under various types
of market structure, general equilibrium and welfare economics.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 311.  Intermed Macroeconomics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ECO 211. Measurements and analysis of the determinants
of national income, employment and the general price level. Theoretical
foundations of contemporary monetary and fiscal policies.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 315.  American Economic History.  (3 Units)  
Development of the American economy, organizational patterns and
institutions, from settlement to the present, with emphasis on the
interaction of social, political, and economic phenomena.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 322.  Money And Banking.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Nature and functions of money
and its relation to prices; the monetary system of the United States; the
functions of banks, bank-credit, foreign exchange and monetary control.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 327.  Public Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Economic principles underlying
public administration. Concepts of socially efficient resource allocation
and provision of public goods. Emphasis on fiscal functions of federal,
state and local governments, the allocation of resources between
government and private use.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 340.  International Trade Thry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Classical and modern theories of
international trade, theory and practice of protection, commercial policies,
balance of payment adjustments and regional trade organizations.
Offered Fall
ECO 341.  International Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Analysis of international financial
transactions, capital movements, international financial organizations,
balance of payments, key currencies and exchange rates. Comparison of
alternative international monetary systems.
Offered Spring
ECO 345.  Economic Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Theories of economic development.
Contemporary economic structure of low income countries. Causes of
limited economic growth. Policy alternatives.
Offered Fall
ECO 350.  Quantitative Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 310. Construction and application
of mathematical models to economic and business decision-making.
Modeling techniques including the Lagrange multiplier technique, optimal
control theory, and differential game theory. Two hours of lecture and two
hours of technical activity.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 351.  Intro To Econometrics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites:ECO 230. Application of statistical techniques to the
problem of testing the validity of behavioral relationships suggested
by economic theory. Topics include regression analysis, time series
models, forecasting, and decision making. Applications performed on the
computer. Two hours of lecture and two hours of technical activity.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 375.  Industrial Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211. Current issues of industrial
organization, concentration, and diversification. Anti-trust policy.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 380.  Economics Of Urban Areas.  (3 Units)  
Economic factors underlying and following from the urbanization of
modern societies. Current problems such as urban decay, air and water
pollution, transportation construction, education, racial concentration,
and city-state and city-federal relationships.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 384.  Economics Of Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ECO 210 or consent of instructor. Deals with topics such
as supply and demand for health services, prices and cost of health
care, fiscal resources and allocations, health insurance and methods of
reimbursement, and influences of Medicaid and Medicare and health care
consumption and delivery.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210 and ECO 211, and consent of instructor are
recommended. Individual study of some topic or problem under the
supervision of a member of the Economics Department. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
ECO 495.  Special Topics In Econ.  (3 Units)  
A course focusing on selected topics in economics, such as economics
of inflation, health, education, ecology, oil spills, and risk and insurance.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 221
Education (EDU)
EDU 470.  Individual Learning Plan Development.  (3 Units)  
Induction candidates gain the knowledge and skills to develop a
professional individualized Learning Plan that focuses on improving
teacher performance via inquiry and formative assessment of their
teaching practice to improve student learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
EDU 474.  Individual Learning Plan Completion.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: EDU 470 is required. Induction candidates complete a
professional Individualized Induction Plan that focuses on teacher
performance via inquiry and includes a comparison of formative and
summative assessment of their teaching practice to improve student
learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
Educational Leadership Justice (ELJ)
ELJ 700.  Leadership for Justice (Self).  (3 Units)  
Introduces candidates to the program and the liberatory/justice
leadership framework providing the foundation Exploration of leadership
models, positionality, intersectionality, purpose and leadership identity for
enacting leadership using a justice lens begins for each candidate.
Offered Summer
ELJ 705.  Leadership for Justice (Organizations).  (3 Units)  
Focuses on candidates identifying key aspects of their organization that
are critical to justice leadership. Data driven decision-making, utilization
of all sources of data and information and the identification of actions to
promote justice will be addressed.
Offered Summer
ELJ 710.  Leadership for Systems Thinking.  (3 Units)  
Takes candidates deeper into the context of their own organization to
analyze their systems and the framing that guides them. In addition,
focuses on the implications identified as structural, social and
psychological barriers.
Offered Fall
ELJ 715.  Leadership for Praxis.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on the identification of justice focused relational obligations,
accountability, governance and communication within organizations.
Offered Fall
ELJ 720.  Leadership for Participatory Liberation.  (3 Units)  
Designed to build candidates' knowledge and capacity to address
systemic racism in their organization. Focuses on aspects of racism and
its manifestation in beliefs, values and inequitable stances present in
their workplace
Offered Spring
ELJ 725.  Leadership for Supportive and Inclusive Communities.  (3
Units)  
Asks candidates to focus on themselves, their organization, and the
larger community that they serve. Utilizing the mindset and moves of
liberatory leadership, candidates examine their values, principles, and
ethics using supportive, inclusive and humanizing practices.
Offered Spring
ELJ 730.  Assessments, Evaluation, and Design Thinking.  (3 Units)  
This course will introduce candidates to program evaluation and
the cyclical of assessing processes and structure to investigate
organizations' areas of strength and challenges for internal change and
improvement.
Offered Summer
ELJ 735.  Politically Intelligent Leadership.  (3 Units)  
The course will teach candidates how to interpret and utilize laws and
policies to better understand political structures( organizations), Justice
Leadership, and their responsibility as a justice leader (self).
ELJ 740.  Leadership for Learning, Development, and Organizational
Transformation.  (3 Units)  
This course focuses on the human potential within organizations for
sustainable growth based on rational aspects and formulating a plan for
individual and collective growth.
ELJ 745.  Cosmopolitan Leadership.  (4 Units)  
Candidates revisit their positionality as researchers, leaders, and
members of the global community ensuring that they foster a culture
of authenticity and liberation in their organizations. Candidate will selfinterrogate to clarify their leadership growth and experience in the
program.
ELJ 760.  Research Design.  (3 Units)  
Examination of research methodologies including ethical and
foundational aspects of educational research as applied in justicefocused leadership practices. Topics include research skills, identifying
educational problems, evaluating research, understanding qualitative and
quantitative research literature, and IRB. The CITI is completed.
Offered Fall
ELJ 762.  Advanced Quantitative Research methods.  (3 Units)  
Advanced hypothesis testing using quantitative methods, including
research designs used to dismantle inequities. Statistical analyses
using t-test, analysis of variance, factorial analysis of variance, multiple
regression, and chi-square, with an emphasis on research questions
addressing justice focused interpretations of results
ELJ 764.  Advanced Qualitative Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
In- depth study of qualitative research methods, analysis and
interpretation for understanding and application to advance the
change in leadership to support equity and justice will be the focus
for this course. Ethnographic interviews, participant and naturalistic
observation, document analysis and other qualitative data analyses will
be emphasized.
ELJ 766.  Action Research design & Mixed Methods.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of the principle and methods used in participatory action
research, including using mixed methods, review of current research,
full participatory of research participants, validity, ethnical issues, data
collection, and social action for social justice.
ELJ 771.  Research Seminar I.  (1 Units)  
A seminar-format course designed to introduce students to the academic
and reflective writing skills needed for dissertation proposals.
Offered Spring
ELJ 772.  Research Seminar II.  (1 Units)  
A seminar-format courses designed to develop students' academic
and reflective writing skills for doctoral student preparing to write their
dissertation proposals.
Offered Summer
ELJ 773.  Research Seminar III.  (1 Units)  
A seminar- format Course designed to advance doctoral students'
academic and reflective writing, skills, following American Psychological
Association (APA) guidelines.
222 English (ENG)
ELJ 774.  Research Seminar IV.  (1 Units)  
A seminar-format course designed to advance doctoral students'
academic and reflective writing skills, including their writing, and their
proposed data collection plan for their proposed data collection plan
for their dissertation following American Psychological Association
guidelines.
ELJ 775.  Research Seminar.  (1 Units)  
A seminar-format course designed to enhance students' skills in
critiquing theirs and others academic writing for their dissertation
proposal, and explaining research for justice in leadership.
ELJ 780.  Dissertation Seminar I.  (0 Units)  
In this course candidates develop a dissertation that identifies and
educational issue or practice within a particular community; review
professional literature from multiple disciplinary perspectives; design
appropriate research to investigate the issue; and begin data collection.
ELJ 781.  Dissertation Seminar II.  (3 Units)  
In this course candidates develop their dissertation with ongoing,
supported advising on data analysis implications, and conclusions. This
course will also support their oral and written dissertation defense.
ELJ 785.  Dissertation Writing I.  (3 Units)  
This course is designed for dissertation chairs and their candidates to
work together to engage in dissertation development and writing.
ELJ 786.  Dissertation Writing II.  (3 Units)  
The course is designed for dissertation chairs and their candidates to
work together to engage in dissertation development and writing.
ELJ 800.  EdD Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
EdD candidates who have completed their course work but not their
dissertation. Signature of EdD Program Director required.
English (ENG)
ENG 107.  Reading & Writing LA.  (3 Units)  
Through reading and writing about place and identity, students are
introduced to threshold concepts in writing studies to increase their
metacognitive skills, deepen their sense of belonging, and strengthen
their growing academic identities.
Offered Summer
ENG 108.  Freshman Composition I: Stretch 1.  (3 Units)  
College-level reading and writing taken over two terms (ENG 108/109)
that incorporates additional instruction and support to develop
rhetorical knowledge and critical thinking and engage students in writing
processes, research and practice of conventions. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall
ENG 109.  Freshman Composition I: Stretch 2.  (3 Units)  
College-level reading and writing taken over two terms (ENG 108/109)
that incorporates additional instruction and support to develop
rhetorical knowledge and critical thinking and engage students in writing
processes, research and practice of conventions. Graded A-C-/NC.
Offered Spring
ENG 110.  Freshman Composition Accelerated.  (3 Units)  
College-level reading and writing that develops rhetorical knowledge and
critical thinking and engages students in writing processes. Graded A-C-/
NC.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 111.  Freshman Composition II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 or equivalent. Reinforcement of basic writing
skills with emphasis on persuasion and argumentation, including
a documented essay. Aids in writing convincing arguments and
assembling, organizing, and documenting evidence supporting a thesis.
Graded A-C-/NC.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ENG 112.  Freshman Composition Supported.  (3 Units)  
College-level reading and writing that incorporates additional instruction
and support to develop rhetorical knowledge and critical thinking and
engage students in writing processes, research, and observation of
conventions. A-C-/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 150.  Languages of the World.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to linguistics as a social science. Includes an overview of
the world's languages and language families, with an investigation of how
social issues and language impact each other. Not open for credit toward
the English major.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 194.  Independent Study in English.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered As needed
ENG 195.  Special Topics in Composition.  (1-4 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
ENG 202.  English Literature to 1642.  (3 Units)  
Survey of British poetry, drama, and prose to 1642. Offered Fall, Spring
Offered All terms
ENG 203.  English Literature: 1642 -1832.  (3 Units)  
Survey of British poetry, drama, and prose, 1642-1832. Offered Fall,
Spring.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ENG 204.  English Literature: 1832- Present.  (3 Units)  
Survey of British poetry, drama, and prose, 1832- present. Offered Fall,
Spring
ENG 205.  Literary Genres and Devices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of GE Area A2: Written Communication.
Introduces a series of literary genres including stories, poems, plays,
essays, and the novel, with characteristic devices including point of view,
symbol, plot and imagery.
Offered Fall
ENG 210.  Study of Language.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Forms of prose fiction from
different periods and national literatures. Written exercises required.
Offered Fall, All terms
ENG 230.  Literature and Popular Culture.  (3 Units)  
Ways of reading literature and popular culture to enhance understanding,
appreciation, and enjoyment. Requires frequent writing assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 240.  American Literature to 1865.  (3 Units)  
Offered All terms
ENG 241.  American Literature after 1865.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study of selected American works after 1865, with
reading across periods, genres, and traditions, including texts by
underrepresented and marginalized groups. Offered Fall, Spring.
Offered All terms
2024-25 University Catalog 223
ENG 271.  Introduction to Creative Writing.  (3 Units)  
Experiences in creative writing through encounters with selected literary
works.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ENG 302.  English Literature to 1642.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2 Written Communication . Survey
of British poetry, drama, and prose to 1642.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 303.  English Literature: 1642-1832.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2: Written Communication. Survey
of British poetry, drama, and prose, 1642-1832.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 304.  English Literature: 1832-Present.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Composition. Survey of British
poetry, drama, and prose, 1832-present.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 305.  Critical Reading of Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Analysis of literature to develop
critical reading skills. Intended for students in Liberal Studies and
Linguistics; may not be counted toward major/minor in English with
Literature option. Written exercises required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ENG 306.  Backgrounds of Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Survey of traditional sources
of world literature, including Greek and Roman mythology, Old and New
Testaments, and early traditions of Asia, Africa, and the Americas
Offered Spring
ENG 307.  Practice in Literary Criticism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2: Written Communication.
Practice in literary criticism from contemporary theoretical perspectives.
For Literature majors and minors in English. Written exercises regularly
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 308.  Critical Approaches to Children's Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Critical analysis of children's
literature from its inception to the present including the concept of the
child as a historical, social, cultural, and political construct. Examines
genre and form in literary and visual works from various perspectives. 3
hours lecture.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ENG 311.  Phonology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. The phonetics of a variety of
languages and the phonetic phenomena that occur in natural languages.
Practice in the perception and transcription of such phenomena.
Introduction to the traditional and current views of phonological theory.
Offered Fall, All terms
ENG 312.  Morphology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Descriptive and historical
(etymological) analysis of the structure of words in English and other
languages: common roots, base forms, and affixes; rules of word
formation; semantic change.
Offered Spring
ENG 314.  English Syntax: Traditional.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. The structure and meaning of
sentences, approached through traditional models of grammar; the role
of syntax in writing and composition.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ENG 315.  Theoretical Syntax.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. The structure and meaning of
sentences approached through any current theoretical model of syntax.
Offered Fall
ENG 317.  Black English Language and Culture.  (3 Units)  
This course examines the linguistic features and the cultural, social,
historic, and communicative aspects of Black English in the US and
across the African and African American diaspora. Students will
learn how to create community-based research to explore the past,
present and future of Black English in a globalized society and in
educational discourse. Students will then learn the writing conventions of
sociolinguistics research and critically reflect on our own intersectional
experiences and interactions with Black English, in order to position
ourselves as sociolinguists within the broader scholarly and academic
community. A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR
requirement for Linguistics majors.
Offered Spring, All terms
ENG 320.  Literacy, Power, and Identity.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of literacy as a sociocultural practice. Connections between
literacies, individuals and social identities, social and political power
structures, and their pedagogical implications
ENG 325.  Poetry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Analysis of various forms of
poetry, with an emphasis on American and British writers from various
eras. Students will learn and apply conventions of oral poetry. Written
exercises required.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 326.  Prose Fiction.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall
ENG 327.  Drama.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Forms of drama by major
playwrights from different periods and national literatures. Written
exercises required.
Offered Spring
ENG 335.  Readings in World Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Intensive study of selected
major writers from the world's literature, read in translation.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 340.  American Literature to 1865.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Intensive study of
selected American works.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 341.  American Literature: 1865-Present.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Intensive study of
selected American works.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 342.  African American Literature.  (3 Units)  
Study of works by African American authors. Historical development of
the tradition from its beginnings to the present. Genres include poetry,
drama, fiction, and autobiography. Key themes include connections to
folk and oral traditions and the role of literature in social protest.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 343.  African-American Poetry and Drama.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 111. Historical development of African-American poetry
from its roots. Study of major African-American plays. Focus on poetry
and drama as media informing particular aspects and textures of the
Black American experience.
Offered Infrequent
224 English (ENG)
ENG 344.  African-American Prose.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 111. Selected African-American works of fiction
and non-fiction. Analysis of themes, techniques and symbols. Special
attention given to folkloric elements; i.e., blues, dozens, folktales, etc., as
they are employed in the literature.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 345.  Latino/a Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 111. Study of works by U.S. Latino/a authors. Attention
to historical and cultural contexts. Comparative analyses of themes such
as identity and community with respect to race, class, gender, sexuality,
migration and citizenship.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 346.  Native American Literature.  (3 Units)  
Study of works by indigenous writes of North America in their historical,
cultural, and tribal contexts. Readings across periods and multiple genres
(fictions, poetry, memoir, oral traditions). Key topics include race, gender,
sexuality, class nationality and sovereignty. Prerequisite: Completion of
G.E. Area A.1. Composition
ENG 347.  Literature of Ethnicity and Gender.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of first year composition. Readings in such
areas as Latino American, Asian American, and women's literature. Topic
will vary. May be repeated up to six units for the major or minor in English.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 350.  Advanced Composition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of GE Area A2 Written Communication.
Continued study of writing processes and rhetorical communication,
with emphasis on literacy within and across disciplinary contexts
and how to negotiate the attitudes and conventions of various
discourse communities. May not be counted toward major/minor in
English.Satisfies Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR).
Graded A-C/NC.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
ENG 351.  Composition for Elementary School Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Satisfaction of the GWAR. Advanced writing course. Focus
on children's writing development, writing process and techniques for
teaching composition, and further development of writing abilities of
prospective elementary school teachers.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 352.  Writing and Speaking Skills for Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Satisfaction of the GWAR. Principles and skills of effective
communication within organizational management. This course
concentrates on eliciting desired responses through various types of
business communication in writing. May be counted only once toward
major/minor and twice for elective credit. Graded A-C/NC. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 360.  Heroes and Antiheroes.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Students will
investigate the cultural assumptions and implications lying behind
the archetypes of heroism and anti-heroism. Texts will be drawn from
mythology, literature, stage drama, and film, with side glances at
philosophy and psychology.
Offered As needed
ENG 362.  Environment in Literature & Culture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2 Composition. Analysis of the
influence of environment on literature with attention to rural vs. urban
spaces, nature vs. culture, climate change and environmental justice.
Offered As needed
ENG 364.  Literary Utopia.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Critical study
of traditions of utopian and dystopian literature, with emphasis on
genre definitions and intersections with science fiction, fantasy, history,
philosophy, and politics.
Offered As needed
ENG 398.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and consent of instructor. Investigations
in the historical and/or theoretical foundations of modern linguistics.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 413.  History of the English Language.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. The evolution of
English from its Indo-European origins, through Old and Middle English, to
the rise and spread of Modern English.
Offered Fall, All terms
ENG 414.  American English.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. American English
from colonial times to the present. Contacts with native, colonial, and
immigrant languages and regional, social, and ethnic dialects.
Offered Spring
ENG 419.  Psycholinguistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. ENG 210 or ENG 314 or one
course in psychology. Current theory and research in the psychology of
language and its historical background, including experiments on speech
production and comprehension, acquisition of language by children, and
disorders of speech and language.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 420.  Linguistic Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. ENG 311 or ENG 314.
Descriptive and formal analysis of phonological, syntactic, and/or
historical data from a variety of human languages. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall
ENG 433.  Thematic Approaches to Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. An exploration of literature
organized around such themes as Women Writers or Death and Dying,
using works from a variety of cultures and historical periods. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 451.  Advanced Creative Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 111 and consent of instructor. Practice in various
forms of imaginative writing. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
ENG 457.  Advanced Composition for Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Satisfaction of the GWAR. Advanced writing course
for prospective secondary school teachers, designed to develop
understanding of writing process and techniques for teaching
composition. Course also stresses development of students' own
strengths as writers.
Offered Fall
ENG 465.  Chaucer.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Chaucer's major
poetry, its historical and literary background.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 225
ENG 467.  Shakespeare.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 307 is required. Literary analysis of selected comedies,
histories, and tragedies. Students will learn and apply performative
aspects of Shakespeare's plays.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
ENG 472.  Creative Nonfiction Workshop.  (3 Units)  
Practice in various forms of contemporary creative nonfiction, such as
memoir, essay, literary journalism. Analysis of a wide range of models,
exercises in invention techniques, discussion of writing processes, and
workshopping of students' drafts and revisions. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall
ENG 473.  Writing Center Theory and Practices.  (3 Units)  
The history and theoretical foundations of writing centers and writing
tutoring. Frequent writing assignments as well as best practices in the
teaching of writing.
Offered Spring, Summer
ENG 476.  Individual Authors and Topics Pre-1700.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Intensive study
of a major author, group of authors, or focused topic from the pre-1700
period.
Offered Fall
ENG 477.  Individual Authors and Topics Post-1700.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Composition. Intensive study
of a major author, group of authors, or focused topic from the post-1700
period.
Offered Spring
ENG 478.  Current Issues in Rhetoric and Composition.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study of selected topics in rhetoric and composition such as
invention and teaching of writing, issues in literacy instruction, rhetoric
and contemporary culture, composition and cognitive development, the
composing process in a rhetoric framework, linguistic approaches to
rhetoric. Three hours of seminar per week. Offered Fall.
ENG 485.  Literary, Media and Culture Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Composition. Practice in
devising strategies appropriate to the needs of students in grades 7-12.
Emphasis on techniques of developing textual, media, and cultural
literacies, of analyzing genres, of making literature, media, and popular
culture accessible, and of generating essay topics from these sources.
Offered Spring
ENG 486.  ESL Teaching Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A2. Composition. Investigation
of approaches, methods, and techniques used in second language
instruction.
Offered Spring
ENG 487.  Introduction to Second-Language Learning and Teaching.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of G.E. Area A.1. Composition. Focus on
linguistic, social, and cultural factors in schooling language-diverse
students. Areas of concentration include first and second-language
acquisition, history of second-language teaching, current secondlanguage theoretical frameworks, and dual language teaching strategies.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 490.  Seminar in Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Intensive study of one or more
authors, a single historical period, a literary movement or genre, or an
aspect of literary criticism. This course examines disciplinary discourse
through formal and informal written assignments that stress the
importance of literary analysis, research. and revision. Repeatable
course. A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement
for all English Literature and English Education majors and minors.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 492.  Seminar in Linguistics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Study of
American writers, texts and topics primarily before 1900. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring, All terms
ENG 494.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Intense
reading or an original research project or creative writing under faculty
supervision. Arrangements must be made a semester in advance of
registration. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed, All terms
ENG 495.  Special Topics in English.  (3 Units)  
Variable authors and texts, literary periods, or analytical approaches and
methodologies. Uses upper-division research techniques to produce
sustained critical arguments.
Offered As needed
ENG 496.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor, restricted to majors. Under the
direction of the internship faculty associate, students work in various
approved internship opportunities. Repeatable course. Credit/no credit
grading.
Offered As needed
ENG 497.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Extensive
reading in selected areas under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
ENG 501.  Advanced English Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Introduces
students to the interdisciplinary fields of English studies, including
literature, rhetoric and composition, and linguistics. This course fulfills
the Oral Requirement of the MA in English: Literature Option and MA in
English: Literature Option with Rhetoric and Composition.
Offered Fall
ENG 513.  History of English Language.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. The evolution of
English from its Indo-European origins, through Old and Middle English, to
the rise and spread of Modern English.
Offered Fall odd
ENG 514.  American English.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. American
English from colonial times to the present. Contacts with native, colonial
and immigrant languages and regional, social and ethnic dialects.
Offered Fall even
226 English (ENG)
ENG 530.  Seminar: Studies in Medieval Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. A study of
major works in English literature before 1500. Some focus on major
continental analogues and critical methodology. Majority of the texts read
in translation. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
ENG 535.  Seminar: Studies in Renaissance Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Major works
in English literature from 1500-1660. Emphasis on such representative
writers as More, Spenser, Shakespeare, Marlowe, Jonson, Donne, Bacon
and Milton. May include continental contemporaries such as Montaigne
and Machiavelli. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 540.  Seminar: Studies in Restoration and Eighteenth-Century
Literature (1660-1798).  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Consent of
instructor and department chair. Literature of the Restoration, Neoclassic,
and Sensibility eras. May include readings that provide historical,
philosophical, or cultural content. Repeatable course. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Spring even, All terms
ENG 543.  Seminar: Studies in Romantic Literature (1798-1832).  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Consent of
instructor and department chair. Selected studies in the Romantic
movement in English literature, including such precursors as Burns and
Blake. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week
Offered Fall odd
ENG 545.  Literary Criticism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Major works in
literary criticism selected from Plato to the present.
Offered Spring, All terms
ENG 546.  Seminar: Studies in Victorian Literature (1832-1901).  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. A study of major
writers from the Great Reform Bill to the fin de siecle with an emphasis on
literary responses to emerging scientific thought, social consciousness,
and religious issues. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall even
ENG 549.  Seminar: Modern British Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Selected literary
study of the modern period in England, Ireland , and the Commonwealth,
as typified by such novelists and poets as Conrad, Yeats, Lawrence,
Joyce, Woolf, Forster, Eliot, Auden, Thomas, Greene, and Lessing.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
ENG 552.  Sem: Studies In American Literature to 1900.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Comparative
study of genres, literary movements, or authors over more than one
period. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring odd
ENG 555.  Seminar: Studies in American Literature After 1900.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Study of
American writers, texts, and topics primarily after 1900. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 570.  Seminar in Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Intensive
training in writing. Advanced study of techniques of prose discourse.
Frequent writing assignments. Repeatable course. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 571.  Discourse Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Analysis
and description of structures and functions of language beyond the
sentence level. May include textual and conversational analysis; classical
rhetorical canons; speech acts; scripts/information structures; cohesion,
coherence, deixis; spoken and written discourse. Three hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Spring
ENG 572.  Creative Nonfiction Workshop.  (3 Units)  
Practice in various forms of contemporary creative nonfiction, such as
memoir, essay, literary journalism. Analysis of a wide range of models,
exercises in invention techniques, discussion of writing processes, and
workshopping of students' drafts and revisions. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall
ENG 573.  Writing Center Theory and Practices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite graduate standing or Consent of Instructor. The history and
theoretical foundations of writing centers and writing tutoring. Frequent
writing assignments as well as best practices in teaching of writing.
ENG 574.  Research Methods and Discourses in Composition and
Rhetoric.  (3 Units)  
Advanced study in research methodologies, scholarly discourses, and
means of knowledge production in composition/rhetoric and writing
studies. Frequent writing and hands-on practice in text-based and
empirical approaches to inquiry. Three hours of seminar per week.
ENG 575.  Teaching Of Composition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Theory and
practice in teaching composition. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 576.  History and Theories of Rhetoric.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Major theories
of rhetoric from ancient Greece to the present. Role of rhetoric in the
history of ideas. Emphasis on multiple notions of rhetoric and attitudes
toward it. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
ENG 577.  Current Issues in Rhetoric and Composition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing or Consent of instructor. Intensive
study of selected topics in rhetoric and composition such as invention
and the teaching of writing, issues in literacy instruction, rhetoric and
contemporary culture, composition and cognitive development, the
composing process in a rhetorical framework, linguistic approaches to
rhetoric. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 581.  Semantics, Pragmatics and Discourse.  (3 Units)  
Overview of semantics and the major approaches to pragmatics and
discourse analysis. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
ENG 582.  Seminar: Linguistic Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Seminar in the descriptive and formal analysis of phonological, syntactic,
and/or historical data from a variety of human languages. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 227
ENG 583.  Seminar: Psycholinguistics.  (3 Units)  
Seminar in current theory and research in the psychology of language
and its historical background, speech production and comprehension,
acquisition of language, disorders of speech and language. Three hours
of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 584.  Seminar: Sociolinguistics.  (3 Units)  
Examinations of varieties of English and social aspects of language
use. Topics include dialectology, pidgin and creoles, bilingualism, codeswitching, and intercultural communication. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENG 585.  Second Language Acquisition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Theories of
second-language acquisition second-language learning, bilingualism, and
sociocultural variables of language uses, with particular emphasis on the
young adult and adult learner. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 586.  ESL Teaching Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing. Investigation of approaches, methods,
and techniques used in second language instruction.
Offered Spring
ENG 587.  Seminar: Current Issues in TESL/Applied Linguistics.  (3
Units)  
Intensive study of selected topics in TESL/Applied Linguistics such as
ESL Writing/Composition, Reading and Vocabulary Acquisition, Pedagogy
of Spoken English, Curriculum and Program Design, Testing/Evaluation.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
ENG 588.  Sem:Pedag Gram For TESOL.  (3 Units)  
Examination of areas of English grammar typically taught to non-native
speakers. To familiarize prospective ESL teachers with classroom
terminology, techniques and materials. Develop ability to analyze and
explain grammatical phenomena in terms accessible to ESL students.
Offered Spring
ENG 590.  Seminar In Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of chair. Study of a writer, period, genre, theme,
or problem in literature. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 591.  Integrative Seminar in Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FRE 220 or equivalent. A reading, composition, and
discussion course concerned with elements of style and syntax, with
emphasis on creative writing by students.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 592.  Seminar:Topics in Linguistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Advanced
topics in phonological, syntactic, historical-comparative or contrastive
theory and analysis. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Spring
ENG 593.  Research Methods in Applied Linguistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Survey of
research methods in applied linguistics, including problem description,
data collection and analysis, interpretation of results. Preparation of Final
Project. Three hours of seminar per week. Repeatable but may count only
once toward the MA degree.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. In consultation
with a faculty member, the student will investigate in detail current
scholarship in some area, or will undertake a project involving original
research or creative writing. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
ENG 595.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
An intensive study of a selected issues in literature or linguistics.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 597.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Extensive
reading in selected areas under the guidance of a faculty mentor.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
ENG 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their coursework but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Environmental Science (ENV)
ENV 590.  Graduate Seminar.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing in the M.S. in Environmental Science
Program or approval by the Program Coordinator. Presentation and
discussion of selected topics in environmental science. One to two hours
of seminar per week. Repeatable course. A maximum of four units may
be applied to the master's degree.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENV 596.  Internship in Environmental Science.  (3 Units)  
Supervised internship, in the student's area of interest, with a
participating agency or company. The internship will be chosen in
consultation with the Program Coordinator. A minimum of nine hours per
week of internship activity and a final written report are required.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENV 598.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Laboratory and/or field research on a specific subject in environmental
science. The research is to be approved and directed by the instructor.
Repeatable course. A maximum of three units may be applied to the
master's degree.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENV 599.  Thesis.  (3 Units)  
Research and writing of a thesis to fulfill the thesis requirement for the
master's degree. The topic of the thesis to be approved and supervised by
the Graduate Advisor, in consultation with the student's Graduate Thesis
Committee. Repeatable course. A maximum of three units may be applied
to the master's degree.
Offered Fall, Spring
ENV 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate studens who have completed their course work but not their
thesis may maintain continuous attendance by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
228 Finance (FIN)
Finance (FIN)
FIN 200.  Personal Finance for Non-Finance Majors.  (3 Units)  
A survey of concepts and tools that can help consumers improve the
management of their personal finances. The course may help students
identify psychological and social processes used to influence how we
spend our money in ways that benefit those institutions, but may conflict
with their self-interest.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 360.  Business Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ACC 230, ECO 210, and one of the following, MAT 105, MAT,
131, MAT 153, MAT 171, MAT 191, or MAT 193. A survey of the decision
framework for financial management; forecasting and planning, major
investment and financing decisions, control and interaction with capital
markets.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
FIN 375.  Personal Financial Planning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Provides an understanding of
personal finance issues relating to budgeting, planning credit, retirement
planning, insurance investments, and estate planning. Students will be
able to adopt principles studied to their personal lives and make better
decisions.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 382.  Financial Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisite: FIN 360. Readings and case studies in financial
theory and practice relating to financial statement analysis, capital
budgeting, short-term financial management; computer applications.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 426.  Portfolio Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360 is required. Basic procedures and analytical
tools necessary to construct, analyze, evaluate and revise investment
portfolios or groups of assets, including computerized portfolio models.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 427.  Financing E-Business.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. An overview of financing options available to EBusiness operations. Emphasis will be placed on analyzing financing
alternatives specific to E-Business, and issues in raising financing at all
stages of operations. Course includes reading assignments, case studies,
and Internet applications.
Offered Spring
FIN 467.  Real Estate Finance and Investment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Practical analysis of financial techniques and
investment opportunities and procedures for real property; investigation
of costs, returns, profitability, tax implications, depreciation, financial
institutions, markets, instruments, agencies of real estate finance, uses of
computerized analysis.
Offered Spring
FIN 468.  Seminar in Investment Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Security analysis, valuation and portfolio
management; emphasis on investment criteria, sources of information,
types of financial investments. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 480.  Economics Of The Firm.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210, ECO 211 and OMG 321. Applications of economic
theory to management decisions; emphasis on analysis and quantitative
techniques appropriate for solving forecasting, production, cost and
pricing problems under various market conditions; computer applications
when appropriate.
Offered As needed
FIN 481.  Financial Inst & Mgmt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Management of financial institutions, including
principles, practices and procedures financing, international capital
asset pricing model and ethical concerns. Case analysis, oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
FIN 484.  Financial Forecasting & Modeling.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisite: FIN 360. Techniques for estimation of sales,
investment, and other financial variables. Emphasis will be on modeling
using statistical software and spreadsheets.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 485.  Entrepreneurial Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. This course focuses on the unique financing issues
as they relate to starting and managing a new business venture or a
small business. The course covers topics such as sources of capital for
start-ups, financial planning for growing businesses, venture capital, and
Initial Public Offerings.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 487.  Fixed Income Securities and Valuation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): FIN 360 required. Students will master the concepts
of yield, duration, factors influencing interest rates and bond prices.
Identify bond market segments and explain common-characteristics and
differences. Construct bond portfolios, measure portfolio risk and return,
and manage a $1 million virtual bond portfolio.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 488.  Multinatl Financial Trans.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Short term export and import financing, including
the fundamentals of foreign exchange, commercial drafts, and letters of
credit; international banking procedures, private and public sources, and
problems of risk and security.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 494.  Independent Study in Finance.  (3 Units)  
Independent study of particular topics in Finance under the direction of a
full time member of the Finance Department. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 496.  Internship in Finance.  (3 Units)  
Under the direction of the Internship Coordinator, students work in a
business organization applying the skills and knowledge learned in the
classroom. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
FIN 500.  Advanced Topics in Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Analysis of decisions in financial management.
Includes financial planning, working capital management, capital
budgeting, valuation analysis, portfolio management, capital structure,
ethical and multinational concerns. Case analysis, oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 229
FIN 502.  Adv Topics in Internatl Bus.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 360. Exploration of issues related to all functional
areas within a global business environment. Emphasizes the additional
opportunities, risks, uncertainties and difficulties of conducting business
across national boundaries. Case analysis, oral/written presentation and
computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 503.  Advan Topics in Multinatl Fin.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 502. Financial decision making in global setting:
financial systems, Euro-currency markets, balance of payments, foreign
exchange markets, risk measurement, hedging, trade.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 504.  Corp. Fin-Valuation Approach.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 500. Principles of valuation; projecting earnings;
discounting future cash flows; the price/earnings method; dividend
discount model; market value vs. replacement value; the role of premiums
when buying public companies; financing alternatives.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 505.  Adv. Mgt of Fin Institutions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 500. An examination of the nature and role of financial
institutions in the economy, money markets, and capital markets,
the Federal Reserve System and monetary policy, the commercial
banking system, thrift institutions, insurance companies, pension funds,
investment companies, and other major financial institutions.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 506.  Invest & Portfolio Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 500. An overview of the investment environment
for the institutional money manager. The market mechanism, market
equilibrium, the relationship between risk and return and the valuation of
various investment instruments are investigated. Analyzes contemporary
theories and techniques of security selection and management available
to the institution portfolio manager.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 507.  Derivatives & Future Markets.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FIN 500. Futures markets; mechanics of buying and selling
futures; options; pricing of options; hedging; regulation of futures
markets; stock index futures; interest rate futures; interest rate and other
swaps.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 508.  Financial Forecast and Modeling.  (3 Units)  
Students will gain a deep understanding of modern forecasting theories
and methodologies widely used in industry that will allow them to
forecast relevant business and economic variables that are vital for
decision makers in companies and governments.
Offered Infrequent
FIN 595.  Selected Topics in Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and FIN 500. Intensive study of a
specialized area of Finance on a selected topic of particular interest to
faculty and students. Three hours of seminar per week. Specific topic
listed in class schedule. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
French (FRE)
FRE 110.  Beginning French I.  (3 Units)  
Basic instruction in French. Training in speaking, listening, reading, and
writing for students who have had no previous work in French.
Offered Fall, All terms
FRE 111.  Beginning French II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FRE 110 or consent of instructor. A continuation of French
110.
Offered Spring, All terms
FRE 220.  Second Year French.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: At least one year of college French or consent of instructor.
Individualized instruction in French language, life and letters for secondyear and advanced first-year students in French. This course taken
successfully twice completes lower division requirements for the major
and minor. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
FRE 305.  Advanced Composition, Syntax, & Stylistics.  (3 Units)  
Major political, intellectual, socio-economic and cultural developments
in Europe from the sixteenth century to the Enlightenment. Key topics
include absolutism, mercantilism, colonialism, constitutionalism, the
Scientific Revolution and the Enlightenment.
Offered Infrequent
FRE 310.  The Study Of Language.  (3 Units)  
Traditional and modern approaches to the study of language;
fundamentals of phonology and grammar (same as SPA 310).
Offered Infrequent
FRE 450.  French Culture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FRE 220 or equivalent. An area studies course focusing on
patterns of French civilization and culture.
Offered Infrequent
FRE 452.  French Literature I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FRE 220 or equivalent. French literature from the Middle
Ages to the Revolution.
Offered Infrequent
FRE 453.  French Literature II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: FRE 220 or equivalent. Prose and poetry of the nineteenth
and twentieth centuries.
Offered Infrequent
FRE 494S.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: B average in French, upper division standing, and consent
of instructor and department chair. Independent study of a literary or
linguistic problem, author, or movement. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
GED Multicultural Option (MUL)
MUL 505.  Assessmnt Sec Lang Lrnrs.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Preliminary teaching credential or consent of instructor.
Study of basic concepts, principles and practices associated with the
assessment of second language learners' linguistic proficiency and
subject-matter knowledge. Topics include: standardized test score
interpretation, evaluation of state-mandated tests, student placement,
test construction and authentic assessment.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUL 508.  Lang Acquisit in Urban Setting.  (3 Units)  
Study of current theory and research in language acquisition including an
introduction to linguistic subsystems, developmental stages, and factors
impacting first and second language acquisition. Emphasis will be placed
on the relevance of theory and research in an urban setting.
Offered Spring
230 Geography (GEO)
MUL 511.  Cultural Diversity in America.  (3 Units)  
Examines contemporary diverse populations in America and their
influence on American educational institutions. The analysis of historical
contributions and cultural influences on the macro-culture provide insight
into our multicultural society.
Offered Spring
MUL 520.  Tchng Eng Spkrs Othr Lang.  (3 Units)  
Issues and problems, techniques, procedures, and materials for teaching
the dominant language (standard English) to the bilingual and to the bidialectal.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUL 521.  Sem Mexi Amer His Educ.  (3 Units)  
Explores the socio-cultural basis for the past, present and future status of
Mexican Americans and Hispanics with emphasis on legal and political
issues. Content and methodological innovation as well as judicial and
legislative actions will be analyzed in depth. Issues relating specifically
to education will be analyzed in this course. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall
MUL 522.  Read/Literacy In Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Designed to prepare bilingual teachers to use effective methodology
to teach literacy and reading to Spanish-speaking bilingual (SpanishEnglish) children. It includes examination of youngsters' readiness skills
in Spanish, and the analysis of different methods to teach reading in
Spanish.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUL 525.  Bil/Mult Teaching Methods.  (3 Units)  
The study of selected bilingual approaches to, and methods of, teaching
social studies, science, mathematics, and language arts. Techniques for
developing bilingual and multicultural teaching materials.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUL 533.  Action Res Urban Educators.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GED 500 is recommended. Development of research skills
needed to conduct both quantitative and qualitative action research in an
urban multicultural setting. Topics include research question formation,
research design identification, data gathering techniques, display and
analysis of data, creating an action plan, dissemination of information.
Offered Spring
MUL 544.  Urban Materials Design & Dev.  (3 Units)  
Development of skills necessary to design effective instructional
materials for urban learners. Using principles of the systems approach
and building upon research, theory, and best practices, students will
create materials to meet the needs of ethnically and linguistically diverse
learners.
Offered Infrequent
MUL 591.  Adv Multicult Studies.  (3 Units)  
Designed for students completing the MA in Education, Multicultural
Option. Students will synthesize and interrelate diverse areas of study
which comprise the masters degree by conducting bibliographic research,
writing critical essays and development training sessions for school, staff
and community individuals.
Offered Fall, Spring
Geography (GEO)
GEO 100.  Human Geography.  (3 Units)  
Cultural, physical, and biological earth systems. Emphasizes human
geography and adaptation to physical habitats.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
GEO 200.  Physical Geography.  (3 Units)  
Classical natural systems, including earth-sun relationships, atmospheric
flows, terrestrial biogeography, landforms, and processes of change;
introduction to modern monitoring methods using maps, satellite
reconnaissance, and geographic information systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
GEO 305.  Cartography.  (3 Units)  
Principles, techniques, design and production of maps and graphs for
data presentation. One hour of lecture and six hours of lab per week.
Offered Spring even
GEO 310.  Geomorphology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: EAR 100 or GEO 200 is required. Study of landforms
created by geologic, volcanic, weathering, fluvial, karst, coastal and other
processes acting on the land surface and ocean floor.
Offered Fall odd
GEO 315.  The Weather.  (3 Units)  
Structure of the atmosphere, planetary circulations, and storms of all
latitudes. Types of clouds, radiation, humidity, precipitation, and optical
phenomena. El Niño-Southern Oscillation and global teleconnections.
Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall odd
GEO 318.  Cultural Pluralism The Human Environment: Methods of
Knowledge and Truth.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of Lower Division General Education. Analysis
of cultural diversity and the process of cultural interaction, interethnic relations and social integration on the community, national and
international levels with emphasis on people's knowledge of the natural
world.
Offered Fall, Spring
GEO 336.  Land Use.  (3 Units)  
Sequential, compatible, and conflicting land uses.Â Zoning and
regulation.Â Impacts of public and private uses.Â Social and economic
benefits from alternative land use.
Offered Infrequent
GEO 350.  World Geography.  (3 Units)  
Study of the world's regions: population distribution, landforms and
natural resources, urban and non-urban relationships, connections of
trade and transportation, plus selected case studies involving water
resources, boundaries and environmental impacts.
Offered Fall, Spring
GEO 357.  Urban Environmental Geography.  (3 Units)  
A survey of key enviornmental issues affecting Los Angeles and
other cities with special emphasis on environmental policy and local
ordinances designed to mitigate urban environmental issues including air
pollution, water resources, park and waste management.
Offered Fall even
GEO 359.  Geography Of California.  (3 Units)  
The physical, cultural and regional geography of California. The land and
its modifications. Spatial distribution of resources. Population, migration
and urbanization. Problems and prospects.
Offered Infrequent
GEO 360.  North America.  (3 Units)  
Physical, regional and cultural geography of the United States, Canada
and Mexico. Emphasizes human-environment interaction, contemporary
patterns of population distribution, resource exploitation, transportation,
and agricultural and industrial production.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 231
GEO 370.  Numerical Methods in Geography.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 101 and MAT 009 (or equivalents). Principles of data
reduction and analysis in the natural sciences. Practical techniques to
understand spatial data sets using computer software. Topics include
matrices, summary statistics, distributions, transformations, hypothesis
testing, contouring, regression and curve-fitting.
Offered Spring odd
GEO 380.  Biogeography.  (3 Units)  
The distribution of plant and animal species with emphasis on native
plant and animal populations in Southern California and recent changes
to the region's flora and fauna.
Offered Fall odd
GEO 405.  Advanced Cartography.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GEO 305 or equivalent is recommended. Planning and
preparing maps, graphics, photographs, and models. One hour of lecture
and six hours of lab per week.
Offered Spring even
GEO 408.  Remote Sensing and Image Processing.  (3 Units)  
Interpretation of physical and cultural features, resources, environmental
factors from photographic and specific sensor imagery. One hour of
lecture and six hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring odd
GEO 412.  Rivers and Streams.  (3 Units)  
Geographic inventory of global, state and national water resources.
Drainage networks, streamflow measurements and flooding. Waterfalls,
rapids, river conservation and dam case studies. Features field trip.
Offered Spring even
GEO 415.  Geographic Information Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites:Basic computer knowledge, CSC 101 or equivalent.
Techniques of data acquisition, processing, analysis and display
as pertain to geographic information systems. Includes practical
applications based on various forms of geographically referenced data.
One hour of lecture and six hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall
GEO 416.  Earth's Climates.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GEO 200 is required. Characteristics and classifications
for Earth's climates, with emphasis on the physical geographic reasons
for their distribution patterns, as well as the biomes associated with
each climate zone. The influence of climate zones on agriculture, diet,
dress, and lifestyle. Physical and biological proxies for climate data, and
historical and current trends in global climate.
Offered Spring odd
GEO 420.  Natural Resources.  (3 Units)  
Atmospheric, hydrologic, ecologic and geologic principles; economic
and environmental considerations in air, water, soil, food, timber, wildlife,
nonmetallic and metallic resources.
Offered Fall even
GEO 433.  Environmental Analysis and Planning.  (3 Units)  
Federal and State requirements, required inputs, presentation formats,
procedures for review and acceptance of environmental reports. Methods
of assessing air quality, noise, water pollution and traffic problems.
Offered Spring even, All terms
GEO 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor.Independent study of a particular
geographic or environmental problem under the supervision of a
Geography faculty member
Offered Fall, Spring
GEO 495.  Special Topics In Geography.  (3 Units)  
Selected topics in Geography with course content to be determined by
instructor. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
GEO 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Research of a particular geographic
or environmental problem under the direction of a Geography faculty
member. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
Gerontology (GRN)
GRN 514.  Intro to Social Gerontology.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 541.  The Older Woman.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 543.  Lesbian and Gay Aging.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 550.  Theories Of Gerontology.  (3 Units)  
Offered Spring
GRN 552.  Seminar in Organiz Admin.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall
GRN 555.  Soc Pol Econ of Aging.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
GRN 558.  Life Opt & Ret Plan.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
GRN 562.  counseling the Older Adult.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 563.  The Older Adult.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall
GRN 564.  Nutrition and the Mature Adult.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 565.  Long-Term Care For Elder.  (3 Units)  
Offered Summer
GRN 567.  Death & Dying.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed
GRN 595.  Special Topics in Gerontology.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered As needed
GRN 596.  Internship in Gerontology.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
GRN 597.  Directed Reading.  (3 Units)  
Offered Spring
GRN 598.  Directed Research.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
GRN 599S.  Thesis or Project.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
GRN 600S.  Graduate Continuation.  (1 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
232 Graduate Education (GED)
Graduate Education (GED)
GED 500.  Research Methods in Education.  (3 Units)  
Examination of assumptions and techniques of educational research.
Review of pertinent research studies emphasizing their applicability to
educational problems. Statistical concepts, research methodology and
computer applications are included.
Offered Fall, Spring
GED 501.  Seminar in Learning and Development.  (3 Units)  
Theory, research and practice related to learning and development.
Emphasis on biological and psychological factors in individual
differences. Includes study of affective and cognitive development. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
GED 503.  Socio-Cultural Issues in Education.  (3 Units)  
Examines the total process of socialization and the effects of cultural
determinants on human development and learning. Considers the school
as an agent of socialization. Change agent role of school personnel is
explored.
Offered Fall, Spring
GED 512.  Values And Teaching.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of philosophical literature as it relates to values in education.
Development of values from early childhood to adolescence. Exploration
of personal values. Methods and procedures for teaching values in the
classroom.
Offered Infrequent
GED 548.  Effective College Teaching.  (3 Units)  
Study of research, theory, and practices associated with teaching and
learning processes within the community college system. Topics include
course planning and organization, student diversity, teaching and student
retention, and instructional technology. Required Text: Tools for Teaching
Offered Infrequent
GED 549.  The Community College.  (2 Units)  
An overview of the history, mission and function of the community
college. Topics include this history of higher education, the role of
the community college, student characteristics, curriculum, finance,
governance, articulations and the California Master Plan. Required Text:
The American Community College
Offered Infrequent
GED 550.  Leadership in Higher Education.  (3 Units)  
Corequisite: GED 551 is recommended. Focuses on leadership theory,
models, practices, governance, and management processes, leadership
perspectives and theory applicable to higher education; addresses the
complex social and political landscape and current and future trends of
higher education.
Offered Fall
GED 551.  Legal Issues in Higher Education.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: GED 550 is recommended. Addresses laws, policies,
and legal issues pertaining to teaching, learning, and administrative
environments in higher education and discusses ethical and legal
principles applicable to their resolution; considers the policy issues which
impact the application of law in higher education.
Offered All terms, Fall
GED 552.  Higher Education Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 550 and GED 551 are recommended. Co-requisite:
GED 553 is recommended. Examines current financial, economic,
regulatory, and budget issues within higher education. Primary political,
regulatory, economic and social influences on higher education, as
well as revenue/expenditure streams, financial planning, analysis, and
management are explored at national, state, and institutional levels.
Offered All terms, Spring
GED 553.  Diversity and Inclusion in Higher Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 550 and GED 551 are recommended. Corequisite:
GED 552 is recommended. Explores issues of diversity, inclusion, equity,
and social justice in higher education; focuses on theory, major concepts,
and best practices as they inform policy, practice and leadership within
higher education.
Offered All terms, Spring
GED 592.  Education Coursework Synthesis.  (3 Units)  
Designed to assist the graduate student completing the M.A. in education
to integrate previous course work and to research new material in
preparation for the master's exam. For all options. May not be used as
credit toward the M.A. CR/NC grading. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
GED 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent study undertaken under the supervision of a faculty
member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
GED 595.  Special Top:.  (1-3 Units)  
Topics vary by section and semester. See class schedule for title and
prerequisites. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
GED 599.  Thesis.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Advisor. The student will execute an individually
planned research effort or a creative project. Students work under
individual supervision with assigned faculty. May be repeated up to six
units.
Offered Infrequent
GED 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Health Science (HEA)
HEA 100.  Health & Lifestyles.  (3 Units)  
To familiarize the student with relationships among the physical, social
and psychological aspects of health, which include: self-care, prevention
and analysis of personal health problems through participation in selfassessment techniques. Topics include the relationship of lifestyles to
nutrition, stress, physical fitness, death and dying, and mental illness.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
HEA 104.  Food, Health and Environment.  (3 Units)  
Explores the links among food, the environment and health. Contributions
of social trends and government policies to the current state of health,
disease and environmental impact of food systems will be examined.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 233
HEA 195.  Special Topics Health Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of special interest for students in the selected area of study. Topic
and content will vary as announced.
Offered Infrequent
HEA 201.  Healthcare Systems and Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
Examination of healthcare delivery systems and personal health as
integrated physiological, social, psychological processes. Topics
include role of healthcare providers; major healthcare organizations;
contemporary healthcare issues; interactions of healthcare and physical
environmental changes which influence health of the whole person.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 280.  Orientation and Elementary Radiation Protection.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Orientation
to applied medicine, hospitals and radiology departments. Introduces
students to overall view of radiology and ethical principles. Basic
radiation protection instruction to allow students to begin the clinical
practicum.
Offered Fall
HEA 281.  Medical Terminology: Radiology.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option.
Programmed approach to general medical terminology with emphasis
on radiology and applied specialties. Review of common medical terms,
prefixes, suffixes and roots.
Offered Fall
HEA 287.  Clinical Practicum I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Supervised
Clinical rotations through support areas of radiology department:
filerooms, darkrooms, patient transport and scheduling. Introduction to
hospital environment and health care team. Film critiques. Practicum 280
hours.
Offered Fall
HEA 300.  Health in Public Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 100 or equivalent is recommended. Health education
required course for the professional multiple or single-subject, clear
credential teaching applicants. Covers all topics designated in the
Health Framework for California, including personal health, family health,
nutrition, the physiological and sociological effects of substance abuse,
cardiopulmonary resuscitation and child abuse.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 309.  Mapping Public Health.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to Geographic Information Systems using ArcGIS Online
for Healthcare Professionals. The course allows students to interpret
geographic patterns/address public health problems for policy planning.
Basic concepts include population demographics, health services,
analyzing environmental factors, data interpretation, and data analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 312.  Intro To Public Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 or concurrent enrollment is required. Nature,
transmission, and control of disease from a public health perspective:
Historical background, current problems, trends in prevention and control,
and applications to health care planning. Students must demonstrate
proficiency in the English language by successfully completing oral and
written assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 313.  Introduction to Biostatistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 (or concurrent enrollment) and MAT 131/132 are
required. Introduction to the basic concepts of biostatistics and their
application and interpretation. Topics include descriptive statistics,
graphics, diagnostic tests, probability distributions, inference, tests of
significance, association, linear and logistic regression, and life tables.
Offered Fall
HEA 314.  Health Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201(or concurrent enrollment) is required. Current
concepts of the behavioral sciences in the health field with specific
application to ethnically and culturally diverse urban communities.
Students must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by
successfully completing oral and written assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 315.  Interpersonal Skills in Health Communication.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 (or concurrent enrollment) is required.
Fundamentals, principles, and skills of interpersonal and group
processes in health related occupations. Special emphasis on theory and
techniques of interviewing, small group dynamics, crisis intervention and
interpersonal management skills in ethnically and culturally diverse urban
settings. Students must demonstrate proficiency in the English language
by successfully completing oral and written assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 316.  Introduction to Epidemiology.  (3 Units)  
Principles of epidemiology are introduced in the context of interpreting
studies of health in human populations within their socio-cultural
setting and diverse environments. Concepts addressing the design,
implementation, analysis and interpretation of epidemiological studies
are covered.
Offered All terms, Spring
HEA 318.  Health Services Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Concepts, issues, and skills in
administration and management of a health care unit, including
personnel, finances, equipment, supplies, and facilities. Students
must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by successfully
completing oral and written assignments.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 319.  Leadership in Healthcare.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Focuses on leadership theory and its
application to the healthcare setting. Leadership concepts include traits,
situations, communication, power, vision, integrity, emotional intelligence,
and courage. Proides an understanding of theory and research, as well as
skills and self insight to become effective leaders.
Offered Spring
HEA 320.  Contemporary Health and Disease.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 201 and BIO 102 are required. Through the natural and
social sciences, addresses infectious and non-infectious diseases across
the lifespan, their causative factors, disease occurrence patterns, risk
factors, symptoms, prevention, control, and treatment methods as well as
educational implications for achieving optimal community health.
Offered Spring
HEA 371.  Radiologic Technology Legal Perspectives Review.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Radiologic Technology Option - CRT. Explores
the foundations of the radiologic technology profession from legal
perspective and coordinates study of current issues, theories and
techniques related to health care delivery; principles of dark room
technology and radiation protection, and medical terminology.
Offered Fall, Spring
234 Health Science (HEA)
HEA 372.  Radiologic Technology History, Philosophy, Review.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Radiologic Technology Option - CRT. Explores
the foundations of the radiologic technology profession from historical
and philosophical perspectives and coordinates study of current issues,
theories and techniques related to concepts and practice of fundamental
patient care, radiologic exposure and routine radiologic procedures.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 373.  Radiologic Technology Ethical Perspectives and Professional
Review.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Radiologic Technology Option - CRT. Explores
the foundations of the radiologic technology profession from an
ethical perspective and coordinates study of current issues, theories
and techniques related to radiographic procedures using contrast
media, topographic anatomy and positioning, and routine fluoroscopic
procedures.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 374.  Radiologic Technology Political and Social Perspectives and
Professional Review.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Radiologic Technology Option - CRT. Explores
the foundations of the radiologic technology profession from a political
and social perspective and coordinates study of current issues, theories
and techniques related to radiation protection and federal and state
regulations, radiologic physics, topographic anatomy and positioning, and
routine exams in pediatrics, surgery and genitourinary room.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 375.  Radiologic Technology Future Perspectives and Professional
Review.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Radiologic Technology Option - CRT. Explores
the future of the radiologic technology profession from a technological,
as well as professional perspective and coordinates study of current
issues, theories and techniques related to special radiologic procedures,
sub-specialties, and departmental and administrative procedures, and
senior research topics.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 380.  Darkroom Chemistry and Techniques.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Darkroom
construction, hand and automatic processing, film artifacts, processing
aspects, and prevention. Quality control and darkroom chemistry.
Offered Fall
HEA 381.  Patient Care Procedures Related to Radiology.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option.
Introduction to fundamental patient care procedures and principles in
radiology departments: patient care/handling, body mechanics, aseptic
technique, emergency procedures and use/care support equipment in
preparation for patient contact.
Offered Fall
HEA 382.  Principles of Radiographic Exposure.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Basic
radiographic principles: image formation, intensifying screens, factors
affecting quality, calibration, equipment design/function, filters,
electromagnetic radiation and exposure factors. Teaches mechanics of
performing examinations.
Offered Fall
HEA 383.  Common Radiographic Procedures Using Contrast Media.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Positioning
and exposure techniques for contrast studies (esophograms, barium
enemas, etc.) fluoroscopic techniques. Introduction to the uses,
contraindications, and pharmacology of contrast media.
Offered Spring
HEA 384.  Topgr Anatomy & Position I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Introduces
topographic anatomy and positioning procedures necessary to produce
diagnostic radiographs of the entire body (except the skull). Exposure
control techniques and exam indications.
Offered Spring
HEA 385.  Radiation Protection.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Principles
of radiation safety, biological effects, x-ray production, and radiation
detection devices. Emphasis on federal and state regulations.
Offered Fall
HEA 387.  Clinical Practicum II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Supervised
rotations through routine diagnostic rooms. Perform radiologic
examinations on patients under direct supervision of a technologist.
These will include x-rays and film critiques of the thoracic and
appendicular skeleton. Rotation through emergency rooms, orthopedics,
and portable radiography. Practicum 580 hours.
Offered Fall
HEA 388.  Clinical Practicum III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Supervised
rotation through routine radiographic/fluoroscopic rooms, including
surgery. Perform routine diagnostic examinations (except skull),
fluoroscopic and intra-operative exams. Weekend rotations begin. Film
critiques. Practicum 580 hours.
Offered Spring
HEA 395.  Special Topics in Health Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of a topic of interest to
students pursuing a career in the health professions. Topic will vary as
announced. One to three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 410L.  Coding Procedures I Lab.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HEA 411L.  Coding Procedures II Lab.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HEA 412L.  Alternative Hlth Record Sys.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HEA 413L.  Computerized Hlth Info Systems.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HEA 414L.  Hlth Info Dept Mgmt.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HEA 435.  Orthotics Soft Goods Fitters Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250 and BIO 251 are required. Comprehensive study
of short-term, custom-fitted orthoses for the management of the spine,
upper and lower limbs. It includes evaluation, assessment, treatment
plan formulation, implementation of the plan and follow-up. Fittings of
selected orthoses are included.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 235
HEA 445.  Material Science and Laboratory Skills.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250 and BIO 251 are required. Study of various
chemical and physical properties of materials and the relationship
and implications of those properties in orthotic-prosthetic design and
fabrication. Development of specific laboratory competencies on O & P
tools, techniques, and materials.
Offered As needed
HEA 455.  Applied Anatomy.  (1 Units)  
Prerequistes: BIO 250 and BIO 251 are required. A focused course in
human anatomy that uses a combined regional and systemic approach to
examine the relationships and organization of the major structures within
the body as they relate to Orthotic and Prosthetic application and design.
Offered As needed
HEA 460.  Comm Health Agencies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Examination and evaluation of state,
federal, local and community health agencies and programs. Survey
and analyze community level drug, alcohol, communicable disease, and
mental health problems and programs. Students must demonstrate
proficiency in the English language by successfully completing oral and
written assignments.
Offered Fall
HEA 461.  Community Health Needs Assessment and Program
Planning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 314, HEA 316, HEA 462, and HEA 479 are required.
Examination of approaches for conducting community health needs
assessments and planning of health intervention programs.
Offered Spring
HEA 462.  Methods in Community Health Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Introduces principles and theories
of learner-centered education to promote community health. Includes
assessment of learning environment; development of curriculum and
teaching plans; teaching/learning strategies, methodologies, resources;
selection of aids and materials; evaluation of effectiveness. Students will
plan and present lessons.
Offered Spring
HEA 463.  Health Program Implementation and Evaluation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 461 is required. Focuses on strategic approaches to
implementation of community health promotion and disease prevention
programs and evaluation of program processes and outcomes.
Offered Spring
HEA 464.  Health Educator as Community Resource and Advacate.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Emphasizes role of community
organizing in engaging diverse communities to advance conditions
in which people can be healthy. Examines role of health educators,
grassroot activists, and others in stimulating social, political, and
economic approaches to promote community health.
Offered Spring
HEA 465.  Introduction to Global Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Introduces approaches used by various
countries in solving their health and medical care problems, and the role
of major international health organizations. Analyzes some of the current
important issues in international health.
Offered Spring
HEA 466.  Environmental Health Problems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Impact of human activities on
environmental quality and resulting environmental health problems,
especially local issues, public and private responses to them. Design,
carry out, and analyze a study and prepare a written report of results.
Students must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by
successfully completing oral and written assignments.
Offered Fall
HEA 467.  Health Policy Issues and Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Examination of the major current health
policy issues in the U.S. with emphasis on the application of conceptual
and procedural policy analysis tools useful for defining policy problems,
assessing alternative solutions, and examining effects of health policies.
Offered Fall
HEA 468.  Multicultural Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SOC 101 and ANT 101 are recommended. Study of social,
cultural, psychological, and biological factors affecting the distribution
of health, wellness, and illness in various ethnic, cultural, and racial
groups. Special attention is given to health issues of groups with special
physical and mental health needs, including underserved and immigrant
populations residing in California.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 469.  Management Sciences in Healthcare Organizations.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ECO 210, HEA 313 and HEA 318 are required. Drawing on
economics, statistics, operations research, decision analysis, systems
analysis, and operations management, provides an introduction to
selected quantitative techniques and analytical tools applicable to
improvement of management problem solving and processes, and the
organizational delivery of health services.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 470.  Legal Issues in the Health Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Examination of new legislation, exploration of various health law issues
that impact hospitals, individuals and groups within the health care
sector; including informed consent, regulation/antitrust, licensure and
credentialing, and medical ethics. Students must demonstrate proficiency
in the English language by successfully completing oral and written
assignments.
Offered Spring
HEA 471.  Law, Ethics and Social Values in Healthcare.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. Overview of legal and ethical issues
faced by society, healthcare consumers, providers, and administrators
within the context of social values. Introduction to legal and ethical
decision-making at the governmental, institutional, and practitioner
levels.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 472.  Survey of Healthcare Finance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 201, ACC 230 and ECO 210 are required. Concepts and
issues in financial management of healthcare organizations. Use of tools
for cost effective decision-making and learn to recognize and deal with
financial components of decision-making in healthcare organizations.
Students must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by
successfully completing oral and written assignments.
Offered Fall
236 Health Science (HEA)
HEA 474.  Health Care Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HSC 201; HEA 470 and HEA 472 are recommended.
Intensive study of ethical issues raised in provision of health care and
health care administration. Current and historical arguments surrounding
ethical issues will be discussed and analyzed. Students will learn to
recognize ethical dilemmas, apply ethical principles and resolve the
dilemmas.
Offered Infrequent
HEA 475.  Human Resources Management in Healthcare.  (3 Units)  
Emphasis on key concepts of human resources management,
identifying importantce of human resources in healthcare organizations,
establishing need for relating strategic planning of organizations to their
human resource planning, and on examining role of organizational culture
in behavior and productivity.
Offered Spring
HEA 476.  Managing Health Information Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 201 and HEA 318 are required. Conceptual and
practical aspects in the analysis, development, and utilization of
health information technology and systems having clinical and
business applications with the focus being on improving organizational
performance.
Offered Spring
HEA 477.  Long-Term Care Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201 is required. History, development, trends; major
policy issues; organization of systems; principles and techniques of
administration, including managing the environment of care and client/
resident care services; management of institutional and communitybased programs.
Offered Spring
HEA 478.  Strategic Management in Health Care.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 318 and HEA 472 are required. Methods for strategic
planning and marketing of health services organizations. Techniques
for determining strategies for unique services, integration of strategy,
structure, and administrative systems.
Offered Spring
HEA 479.  Research Methods in Health Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 313 is required. Overview of research methods in
health sciences, including study design, sampling, data collection
and analysis, statistical techniques, and report writing. Application of
research methods to development of research proposal. Critical analysis
of literature. Examination of relevance of data to decision making.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 480.  Radiological Physics.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Emphasis
of health and safety on electric circuits, generators, x-ray circuits, x-ray
physics.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 481.  Topographic Anatomy and Positioning II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Introduces
topographic anatomy and positioning procedures necessary to produce
diagnostic radiographs of the skull. Exposure control techniques and
exam indications included.
Offered Fall
HEA 482.  Special Radiographic Procedures.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option or consent
of instructor. Radiographic anatomy and physiology, positioning, film
evaluation and specialized equipment applying to highly technical exams
(interventional radiography, tomography, CT and MRI). Management of
acutely ill patients. Fee required.
Offered Spring
HEA 483.  Sub-Specialties in Radiology.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option.
Introduction to principles of pediatric radiography, intraoral radiography,
radiation therapy and nuclear medicine. Image formation, equipment,
techniques and handling of radiation and radionucleotides.
Offered Spring
HEA 485.  Departmental Administrative and Office Procedures, Computer
Literacy.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option.
Introduction to organization and budgeting of a radiology department;
use of computers in radiology and basic computer principles.
Offered Spring
HEA 487.  Clinical Practicum IV.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option.Supervised
rotations through routine radiographic/fluoroscopic, pediatric, surgical
and genitourinary rooms. Performs routine exams and film critiques
(except skull) in all areas. Practicum 280 hours.
Offered Fall
HEA 488.  Clinical Practicum V.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Supervised
rotations through all areas of routine radiography, with student
performing all routine diagnostic fluoroscopic and radiographic exams
and film critiques, including skull radiography. Student will be able to
perform radiologic procedures independently. Practicum 580 hours.
Offered Fall
HEA 489.  Clinical Practicum VI.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Supervised
rotations through special radiographic procedures, radiation therapy,
magnetic resonance imaging, nuclear medicine, mammography and
ultrasound. Continued application in routine radiography, fluoroscopy and
film critique. Perform radiologic procedures independently. Practicum 580
hours.
Offered Spring
HEA 490.  Health Science Senior Seminar.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and HEA 479 are required of all majors.
For Community Health Option: HEA 461, HEA 463 and HEA 468 are
required. For Health Care Management Option: HEA 467 and HEA 478 are
required. Undertake in-depth study employing concepts and principles
learned in Health Science core and options. Must demonstrate analytic
thinking skills and ability to synthesize disparate area knowledge in the
development of an original research project. Proficiency in written and
oral English language required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 491.  Res Sem Orth/Prosth I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 440 and HEA 450. Background literature review,
hypothesis formation, study design, development of data collection
instruments and data collection as phase one of orthotic/prosthetic
research project. Students must demonstrate proficiency in the English
language by successfully completing oral and written assignments. One
hour of seminar per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 237
HEA 492.  Research & Seminar in O&P.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131, or consent of instructor. Overview of the principles
and applications of research. Examination of testing and improving
patient outcomes. Basic concepts in research design, including literature
review, identification of research question, development of data collection
instruments, data analysis. Write and present a research proposal.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 493S.  Preceptorship in O&P.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. 125 hour placement in a private
sector or institutional facility. Repeatable for credit up to 8 units. Fee
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 494.  Independent Study in Health Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. In-depth study of a health sciences
topic under the supervision of a health sciences instructor. Requires
independent study contract to be completed before enrollment.
Repeatable course.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
HEA 495.  Spec Topics in Health Sciences.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 201; Consent of instructor. Intensive study of a Health
Sciences topic of special interest to students pursuing a career in the
health professions. Topic will vary as announced. One to three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
HEA 496.  Internship in Health Sciences.  (1-6 Units)  
Must be Health Science major; must be a senior; must be accepted in the
internship program; consent of instructor required. Corequisite: HEA 497.
Students will be directed to health care facilities to serve as interns.
Regular meetings are scheduled with a faculty internship supervisor to
assess student progress. Up to forty hours per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 497.  Internship Seminar.  (1 Units)  
Corequisite: HEA 496 is required. Consent of instructor is required.
Students discuss and conduct in-depth analysis of their personal
and professional growth and problem-solving skills in relation to their
internship experiences.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 498.  Dir. Research in Hlth. Sci..  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 201 and consent of instructor. Advanced topics and
research on specific subjects in Health Sciences. Topics of research to be
approved and directed by an instructor.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 499.  Senior Project Radiology.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Radiologic Technology Option. Individual
research in radiology with student class presentation: learn presentation
skills, use of A-V methods, oral skills, and written presentation. Students
must demonstrate proficiency in the English language by successfully
completing oral and written assignments. One hour of seminar activity
per week. Repeatable for credit for up to one unit.
Offered Fall, Spring
HEA 508.  Clinical Pathology for Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 455 or consent of instructor. Examination of the
etiology, clinical signs and symptoms, treatment, prognosis and social
implecations of pathological conditions associated with numerous
diseases and traumatic injuries that require orthotic and/or prosthetic
intervention. Includes introductory Neuroscience and neural disorders
encountered in practice.
Offered Fall
HEA 516.  Clinical Evaluation Tools in Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 455 or consent of instructor is required. Examines the
variety of standardized clinical assessment tools to be appropriately
used in concert with the clinical examination, as well as evidence from
literature, to determine the need for orthotic-prosthetic services and
design optimal intervention strategies.
Offered Fall
HEA 535.  Practice Management for Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500 is required. Addresses general business practice
within orthotic-prosthetic practice, including its role in clinical decision
making, documentation, time management and compliance with
regulatory agencies, reimbursement and human resource management.
Offered Summer
HEA 536.  Psychological Aspects of Disability.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500 is required. Application of psychological concepts
to illness and disability. Awareness of social supports and constraints,
activities across the lifespan, and integration of these factors into clinical
practice. Strategies for dealing with patients in distress, and symptoms
requiring referral to other professionals.
Offered Summer
HEA 540.  Orthotic Management of the Upper Limb.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508, HEA 516 and HEA 545 are required.
Comprehensive study of short-and long-term upper limb orthotic
management. Includes evaluation; assessment; treatment plan
formulation; implementation and follow-up. Fabrication and fitting of:
finger, hand, wrist, forearm, elbow, humeral and shoulder orthoses.
Offered Spring
HEA 541.  Orthotic Management of the Lower Limb I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508, HEA 516 and HEA 545 are required.
Comprehensive study of lower limb orthotic management distal to the
knee. Includes evaluation and assessment; treatment plan forumlation,
follow-up and patient education; biomechanics; gait analysis and motor
disability. Fabrication and fitting of foot and ankle-foot orthoses.
Offered Spring
HEA 542.  Orthotic Management of the Lower Limb II.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 541 is required. Comprehensive study of lower limb
orthotic patient managment proximal to the knee. Includes evaluation
and assessment; treatment plan formulation, follow-up and patient
education; as well as biomechanics, gait analysis and motor disability.
Fabrication and fitting of selected orthoses.
Offered Fall
HEA 544.  Orthotic Management of the Spine.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508, HEA 516 and HEA 545 are required.
Comprehensive study of spinal orthotic management. Includes
evaluation, assessment, treatment plan formulation, implementation of
the plan, and follow-up. Fabrication and fitting of selected orthoses is
included. Also, presentation of Wheelchair Seating and Cranial Remolding
Helmets.
Offered Fall
HEA 545.  Normal Gait and Biomechanics of Movement.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 455 or consent of instructor. Primary areas of study
will include applied anatomy, anthropometry, kinematics, and kinetics,
normal human locomotion, force vectors, observational and instrumented
gait analysis.
Offered Fall
238 Health Sciences (HSC)
HEA 547.  Gait Analysis and Pathomechanics for O & P.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 545 or consent of instructor. Examination and
assessment of how and why an individual's gait deviates from normal
human locomotion when they are utilizing an orthotic or prosthetic device
designed for application distal to the knee.
Offered Fall
HEA 551.  Prosthetic Management of the Upper Limb.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508, HEA 516 and HEA 545 are required.
Comprehensive study of upper limb prosthetic management, including
transradial, transhumeral, partial hand, elbow and shoulder disarticulation
amputations. Includes evaluation; assessment; treatment plan
formulation, implementation and follow-up to promote positive outcomes
using evidence-based practice.
Offered Spring
HEA 552.  Prosthetic Management of the Lower Limb I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508, HEA 516, and HEA 545 are required. Management
of amputations distal to the knee, including Transtibial, Symes and
Partial Foot. Patient assessment, formulation of treatment plans, and
implementation through measurement, casting, fabrication, and fitting of
patients. Pathologies, surgical procedures, components, biomechanics,
gait and outcome measures.
Offered Spring
HEA 554.  Prosthetic Management of the Lower Limb II.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 552 is required. Management of amputations proximal
to the knee, including Knee Disarticulation, Trans Femoral and Hip
Disarticulation. Includes all aspects of patient assessment, formulation
of treatment plans, and implementation through measurement, casting,
fabrication and fitting to promote positive outcomes.
Offered Spring
HEA 580.  Applied Technologies in Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500 is required. Integration of non-traditional
techniques in the measurement, fabrication, and delivery of devices in
contemporary O & P practice. This includes knowledge of computer aided
design, electrical circuitry, and biomechanical and biomedical engineering
concepts.
Offered Summer
HEA 592.  Subspecialties in Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 541, HEA 542, HEA 551 and HEA 552 are required,
or consent of instructor. Student driven course in areas of advanced
skills, infrequently used devices, or unique goals in O & P. Lecture and
demonstration with pediatric, geriatric, recreational and special use
clients. Development of evaluation, assessment, and treatment plans
through case studies and live interaction.
Offered As needed
HEA 593.  Culminating Activity in Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Advancement to Candidacy MS in Health Science:
Orthotics and Prosthetics Option requires a portfolio as the culminating
experience. The portfolio is an accumulation of a direct research paper,
practical exams, written and written simulation exams, oral exams, gait
analysis and clinical patient scenarios.
Offered As needed
HEA 596.  Clinical Practicum in Orthotics and Prosthetics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 508 and HEA 516 are required. Fieldwork and in-depth
study of discipline related topics under the direction of Division of Health
Sciences faculty member. Repeatable for credit for a maximum of eleven
(11) units.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Health Sciences (HSC)
HSC 491.  Management in Health Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HEA 201. Presentation and discussion of current concepts
and trends in the administration and management of the health sciences.
Educational/instructional methodologies. Student projects, written and
oral.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 500.  Health Care Leadership & Mgt.  (3 Units)  
Examines the structure, management and interrelationship of health
care organizations across the spectrum of care in light of classical and
contemporary management theory, and provides understanding of the
unique relationship within and between health care organizations and
professionals.
Offered Fall
HSC 501.  Advanced Research Methods in Health Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HEA 479 or equivalent and MAT 131 or equivalent. Theory
and practice of experimental, correlation and descriptive research.
Computer application of statistical packages to data sets. Two hours of
lecture and two hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 502.  Principles of Epidemiology.  (3 Units)  
Overview of principles and methods of epidemiology and application
to distribution of health and illness in society. Examines risk factors
associated with incidence and prevalence of acute and chronic diseases
in diverse populations.
Offered Spring
HSC 503.  Health Prom & Disease Prev.  (3 Units)  
Study of health behaviors and evaluation of community intervention
strategies for the promotion of health and prevention of disease in
diverse populations.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 504.  Hea Policy & Adm for Hea Prof.  (3 Units)  
Examination of current health policy issues and health care
administrative practices for health professionals. Emphasis on health
care reform, managed care, case management, personnel management,
financial management, the health care team, Patient Focused Care,
Continuous Quality Improvement.
Offered Fall
HSC 505.  Teac Strat for Health Prof.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Study of effective teaching and evaluation
methods in health sciences, including principles of teaching and learning,
curriculum development, problem-based learning, competency-based
outcomes assessment, group dynamics, and instructional media.
Offered Fall
HSC 506.  Critical Assess of Hea Sci Lit.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HSC 501, or completion of HEA 479 or equivalent and
MAT 131 or equivalent, and consent of instructor. Critical assessment of
health literature in terms of research methods, application of research
findings, and policy implications.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 507.  Meas & Assess in HP Educ.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. The course focuses on issues of measurement
and assessment in teaching in the health professions. Emphasis is
placed on approaches to testing, types of instruments, validity, reliability,
and item analysis. Examines methods and approaches to evaluation of
scientific research.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 239
HSC 508.  Ethical Issues in HC Mgt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500 is recommended. Review of ethical decisionmaking theories and moral principles related to health care organizational
management, biomedical advances, end-of-life criteria, access to care,
and the establishment, composition, and responsibilities of medical
ethics committees and ethical codes of conduct.
Offered Spring
HSC 509.  Commun & GP Dyn in HC.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500 is recommended. Assists students in
understanding and improving interpersonal communication skills through
structured exercises in professional presentations, scientific writing, skill
development in health information technologies, and interacting with
health personnel and practitioners in healthcare organizations.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 512.  Principles of Managed Care.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Analyzes the implications to providers,
consumers, and payers of managed care including the financial and
operational values of capitation and other reimbursement mechanisms,
medical group formation and valuation, risk assessment, and contractual
issues of price, service, and payment.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 515.  Org Theory & Behavior in HS.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500; completion of core requirements is
recommended. Reviews organizational design, behavior and theory as an
interdisciplinary approach to understanding health service organizations.
Issues of workforce diversity, organizational development, reengineering
and the use of teams to improve efficiency are analyzed.
Offered Fall
HSC 518.  Fin & Cost Accounting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Presents principles and perspectives of
financial and cost management of profit and not-for-profit health care
organizations with specific emphasis on the integration of contractual
allowance, capitation management, cost-center accounting and
reimbursement policy impact on financial management.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 521.  Compl Hea Law & Res.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Covers legal theories, issues, and government
regulations as they pertain to management of and compliance with
recognized standards of medical research and clinical trials.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 524.  HS Res & Funded Projects.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Analysis of funded research projects in the
health sciences, including study design, sampling, data analysis and
significance of the research proposal in preparing a grant application.
Critical analysis of the literature and identification of appropriate funding
opportunities for grant projects.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 530.  HC Strat Plan & Market.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HSC 500. Presents the principles and theoretical foundation
of health care strategic and tactical planning, marketing, business
development, managed care contract maximization, and financial
analysis and modeling of alternative short and long-range strategies
across the continuum of health care.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 594.  Ind Study in Health Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent study, including research or field experience under
supervision of a faculty member. Independent study contract required.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 595.  Special Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced course of interest to graduate students in the health sciences.
Specific topic and content will vary as announced. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 596.  Pract in Prof Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of core courses. Fieldwork and in-depth study
of a discipline related topic under the direction of Division of Health
Sciences faculty member. Graded CR/NC only. Nine hours of laboratory
per week. Repeatable for credit for up to a maximum of six units.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 598.  Directed Research.  (1 Units)  
Research on a subject related to the option which is suitable for
professional presentation or publication. Specific topic of the research
must be approved and directed by an instructor. A maximum of 2 units
may be applied toward the master's degree. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring, Summer
HSC 599.  Graduate Capstone Activity.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Advancement to Candidacy and completion of all core
courses and HEA 598. Writing and presentation of a research project
under supervision with assigned faculty.
Offered Fall, Spring
HSC 600.  Project Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Students who have completed all coursework except HSC 599 Graduate
Capstone Activity may maintain continuous attendance by enrolling in
this course. Signature of graduate coordinator is required.
Offered Fall, Spring
History (HIS)
HIS 101.  History Of United States.  (3 Units)  
A study of the ideals, creeds, institutions, and behavior of the peoples of
the United States . Meets the State requirement in U.S. History.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
HIS 120.  World History I.  (3 Units)  
Explores the early development of societies around the world and their
increasing interactions to 1500. Reviews the rise of cities and empires,
and major political, social, economic and cultural developments prior to
the moden period.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 121.  World History II.  (3 Units)  
Explores the regional and global interactions and exchanges that have
shaped the world since 1500. Treats the major demographic, socioeconomic, cultureal and political patterns and changes that distinguish
the modern period in world history.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 300.  Theory and Practice of History.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to the theory and practice of history. Explores the
major philosophies of history and reviews current trends in the field.
Introduces students to disciplinary research, thinking and writing skills,
including the use of library resources, the analysis and interpretation of
primary and secondary sources, the forms of disciplinary composition,
and documentation standards.Â
Offered Fall, Spring
240 History (HIS)
HIS 301.  Individual, Family, and Community in Historic Perspective.  (3
Units)  
Concentrates upon factors that contribute to shaping of individual, family,
community, and regional history. Emphasis upon personal histories
and individual relationships to immediate environment. Includes ethnic
settlements, historic sites, oral histories, generations.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 302.  Practicum In Applied History.  (3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 305.  World History for Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 120 and HIS 121 are required. Topics in world history
is taught in grades 6, 7 and 10 in California schools. Emphasizes growth
of world history as a field, regional and global patterns of continuity
and change, and cross-cultural exchange as a source of historical
development.
Offered Fall
HIS 310.  The Ancient World.  (3 Units)  
The survey of the history of the ancient world with emphasis on the
earliest civilizations of the Near East, classical Greece , and the rise and
fall of the Roman Empire.
Offered Fall
HIS 311.  Medieval Europe.  (3 Units)  
Europe from the decline of Rome in the West to the fourteenth century.
Political, economic, institutional, religious, and cultural changes. The
fortunes of Empire and Papacy, early Islam, the Bynzantine Empire, and
the renaissance of the twelfth century.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 312.  Renaissance and Reformation.  (3 Units)  
The Italian Renaissance through the Thirty Years' War; the rise of national
states, the Protestant revolt, the Counter-Reformation, the hegemony of
Spain, and the attendant commercial revolution of the Atlantic World.
Offered Spring
HIS 313.  The Age of Absolutism and Enlightenment.  (3 Units)  
Course examines the African American experience from African slave
trade through emancipation. Themes include the Atlantic Slave Trade;
slavery and slave resistance; the emergence of African American culture;
free black communities; black abolitionism; and black participation in the
military.
Offered Fall
HIS 314.  Emergence Modern Europe.  (3 Units)  
The dissolution of traditional societies in Europe and the emergence
of modern ideology, from the Enlightenment through the French and
Industrial revolutions to the period of internal strife and power politics at
the end of the 19th century.
Offered Fall
HIS 315.  20th Century Europe.  (3 Units)  
The formation of present-day Europe amid continued industrialization,
war, social and political ferment from the opening of the century to the
present.
Offered Spring
HIS 318.  History of Medieval Russia.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HIS 120 and HIS 121 are recommended. This course
surveys the history of Russia from the founding of Kievan Rus' to the
end of he seventeenth century. Topics include migrations of the Eastern
Slavs; state formation; Russia under the Golden Horde; the history of
Tsardom of Muscovy.
Offered Fall
HIS 319.  History of Imperial Russia, 1689-1917.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 121 is recommended. This course surveys the history of
Russia from 1689 to the Russian Revolution. Topics include the impact
of Peter the Great; imperial responses to revolution, nationalism, and
industrialization; the birth of the Russian intelligentsia; and the origins of
the Revolution.
Offered Spring
HIS 320.  History of the USSR and Post-Soviet Russia.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 121 is recommended. This course explores Russian
history from 1917 to the present. Major topics include the origins of
the Revolution; the rise of Bolshevism; the Russian Civil War; Stalinism;
World War II; post-Stalin reforms; the dissolution of the USSR; and major
Post-Soviet developments.
Offered All terms, Fall
HIS 330.  US Colonial Period.  (3 Units)  
The discovery, founding and expansion of colonial settlements to 1740.
The relation of European institutions and plans to American ideas,
experience, and reality.
Offered Fall
HIS 331.  United States: Revolutionary and Constitutional Period.  (3
Units)  
Evolution of the revolutionary movement in the North American colonies.
Anglo-American imperial problems, culminating in the Confederation
period and the drafting of the American Constitution, 1740 to 1789.
Offered Spring
HIS 332.  US Early National Period.  (3 Units)  
A study of the national experience from the Constitution through the
era of sectional conflict. Includes expansion of the Union westward,
the emergence of a national character, and sectional rivalries leading to
conflict at mid-century.
Offered Spring
HIS 333.  United States: Civil War and Reconstruction.  (3 Units)  
Social, political, and economic origins of sectionalism and breakup of the
Union; military campaigns and the home front in wartime; reconstruction
in the South. Focus on the years 1849-1877 and their legacy to later
generations.
Offered Fall
HIS 334.  Emergence of Modern America.  (3 Units)  
The triumph of the industrial revolution in the post-Civil War period and
the response of agrarian and progressive protest. The rise of the United
States to world power and involvement in international affairs prior to
World War I.
Offered Fall
HIS 335.  United States: War and Depression.  (3 Units)  
Major developments in American life and institutions from the beginning
of World War I to the end of World War II. Consideration of the social,
economic, and political implications of prosperity, depression, and two
world wars.
Offered Fall
HIS 336.  United States: Recent Period.  (3 Units)  
Major developments in American life and institutions since World War
II. Consideration of domestic politics from Truman to Reagan, effects of
mass technology, the civil rights struggle, and confrontations with the
communist world.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 241
HIS 340.  American West.  (3 Units)  
Evaluates successive American wests from the pre-Columbian era to the
present. Major themes include the Turner thesis, socio-economic, cultural,
and political consequences of American colonization, and ways in which
women, African Americans, Hispanics, and American Indians shaped the
American West.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 341.  California.  (3 Units)  
The social, political, and cultural history of California, from the period of
Spanish exploration to the present; emphasis on adjustments of differing
ethnic groups.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 342.  Native American History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 101 OR Equivalent. Survey of Native American history
from the pre-contact period to the present.Examines Native histories
and cultures, inter-tribal relations, European colonial and U.S. federal
Indian policies, identity policies, tribal sovereignty, and modern selfdetermination movements.
Offered All terms, Fall
HIS 343.  African American History from Africa to Reconstruction.  (3
Units)  
Traces principle economic, political and social trends in Latin America,
post-independence. Considers the wide variety of local, regional, and
national responses to questions about modernity, development, and
social justice. Special attention paid to issues of class, race and gender.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 344.  African American History: Reconstruction to the Present.  (3
Units)  
Course explores African American history from Emancipation to the
present. Themes include Reconstruction; the Great Migration; the Harlem
Renaissance; the Great Depression; the New Deal; World War II; the Civil
Rights Movement; the Black Power Movement; and contemporary racial
politics.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
HIS 345.  History of the Mexican American People I.  (3 Units)  
Mexican American life to 1900, stressing the evolution of economic and
political thought, social institutions, and cultural expressions.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 346.  History of the Mexican American People II.  (3 Units)  
The Mexican American's contributions to the building of the Southwest;
the clash between Mexicans and North Americans; the emergence of the
urban Mexican American.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 348.  Labor In American Society.  (3 Units)  
The role of labor in the political, economic, and social life of the U.S. ,
including growth of organized labor, rival ideologies, legal decisions, and
contributions of various ethnic groups, from the colonial period to the
present.
Offered Spring
HIS 352.  Topics in United States Foreign Relations History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 101 or equivalent is required. Topics in United
States foreign relations history. Courses emphasize interaction of
strategic, political, economic and cultural factors in policy making and
implementation, as well as, impact of major international events on
American and global society, economy, and government.
Offered Fall
HIS 353.  Terrorism and Totalitarianism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 121 is required. Introduction to history, definitions,
tactics, uses, philosophical and socio-political origins of terrorism and
terrorist organizations, and to political systems such as fascism and
Marxism which have adopted elements of terrorism as a means of
controlling populations and the political process.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 354.  History of American Immigration.  (3 Units)  
Historical trends, movements, and patterns of global immigration to the
United States . Topics of study include: motives for immigration; antiimmigration sentiments and activities; legal and political responses; role
of distinctive cultural groups; assimilation and nonconformity.
Offered Spring
HIS 355.  American Civil Rights History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 or ENG 108/109 is required. Junior status is
required. Covers the long history of civil rights in the United States from
the antebellum to the present with special emphasis on the non-violent
movements of the Cold War era.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 356.  American Environmental History: American Environment from
Pre-Contact (prior to 1500) to the Present.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 101 is required. Explores the environmental history
of the continental United States from the pre-contact period (prior to
1500) to the present. Examines how humans have altered the American
environment and how environmental factors have shaped the course of
American history.
Offered Fall
HIS 360.  African History to the 1880's.  (3 Units)  
African historiography and history to the 1880's, covering themes such
as human origins, environment, trade, cultural exchanges and migrations
in the Indian Ocian, Mediterranean and Atlantic Worlds, and Arab/Asia/
European conquest and settlement in shaping diverse societies.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 361.  African History from the Colonial Era to the Present.  (3 Units)  
African hisotry from the 1180's to the present, including topics on
European conquest, the invention of tribalism, and the creation of new
settler states, nationalist movements leading to independence, and the
challenges faced by post-colonial states.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 362.  Traditional China.  (3 Units)  
The origins and evolution of Chinese civilization and the influence of
China on East Asia prior to the 19th century Western impact.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 363.  Modern China.  (3 Units)  
China from 1840 to the present. Western impact on traditional China
and the Chinese response. Analysis of attempts to modernize China . A
history of the Chinese communist movement since 1921. Society, politics
and culture of the People's Republic of China focusing on the era of Mao
Zedong (1949-1976).
Offered Infrequent
HIS 364.  Traditional Japan.  (3 Units)  
Origins and evolution of Japanese social, cultural, intellectual, and
political traditions until the 19th Century Western impact. Foundation for
comparison and contrast of Japan before and after the Meiji Restoration.
Offered Infrequent
242 History (HIS)
HIS 365.  Modern Japan.  (3 Units)  
Japan from the late Tokugawa period to the present. Western impact
on traditional Japan and the Japanese response; the development of a
modern state, economy, and society.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 366.  Colonial Latin America.  (3 Units)  
Latin America from conquest to independence movements of the early
nineteenth century. A general overview of colonial society, culture,
economics, and politics. Special attention paid to issues of gender, race,
and ethnicity, and questions of history and memory.
Offered Fall
HIS 367.  Modern Latin America.  (3 Units)  
Offered Spring
HIS 368.  Mexico: Colonial.  (3 Units)  
Explores pre-Columbian Mexican civilizations, especially the Mexica;
examines Spanish conquests and the influence of race, class, and gender
on the development of colonial Mexican society; contrasts northern,
central and southern regions; investigates Mexican independence.
Offered Fall
HIS 369.  Mexico: National Period.  (3 Units)  
Traces colonial legacies, including those of race, class and gender
in post-independence Mexico; analyzes the Mexican liberal tradition,
nationalism, the Mexican Revolution and late 20th Century neo-liberalism;
examines US-Mexican relations; investigates socio-cultural, economic
and political issues.
Offered Spring
HIS 370.  History of Early Monotheism.  (3 Units)  
The origins and development of Judaism, Christianity, and Islam through
1000 C.E. Examines key historical theories and controversies, and the
mutual cultural, political, economic impacts of these religions and their
societies. Explores key beliefs and practices of each faith.
Offered Spring
HIS 373.  The City In History.  (3 Units)  
The rise of the city from earliest times to the present tracing the
establishment and growth of cities as institutions and the development
of the process of urbanization; comparison of selected cities.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 375.  Pop Culture in History.  (3 Units)  
Course examines how cultural producers have used various popular
mediums including art, music, theater, literature, oral traditions, and
televisions to articulate identities and to challenge hegemonic discourses
of class, race, ethnicity, and gender as well as the structural inequalities
they support. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Spring
HIS 376.  Film As History.  (3 Units)  
The historical analysis of films as manuscripts and source materials
for social and intellectual thought in the twentieth century. Emphasis to
vary from semester to semester, for example: Film as History: The Great
Depression; or Film as History: Latin America.
Offered Fall
HIS 379.  The Family In History.  (3 Units)  
Family relationships, sexual attitudes, patterns of growing up and
growing old in various societies, and minority groups, as they have
evolved with social and economic changes in various historical contexts.
Offered Spring
HIS 380.  Women In History.  (3 Units)  
Changing role of women in the family, political economy and culture of
various societies. Topics vary, for example, Women in History: Sex Roles
in North and South America; Women in History: Women in China ; Women
in History: Sex roles and Feminism in the United States.
Offered Fall
HIS 395.  Special Topic In History:.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study of a single period, area, figure, movement, or idea in
history. Topic may be either departmental or interdisciplinary, but focus is
historical, and may be single instructor or team taught. Example: Special
Topics: Revolution.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 400.  Proseminar in History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: C or better in HIS 300 is required. Provides advanced
disciplinary training designed to prepare students to undertake
independent historical research. Offers advanced instruction in historical
research and writing through exercises in historiographic analysis based
on intensive collective studies of important events or themes in history.
A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all
History majors and minors.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
HIS 490.  Senior Seminar In History.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 400 with grade of C or better. Collective examination of
a topic in depth. Students will undertake a major research project utilizing
historical skills. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HIS 300, HIS 400. Independent study of a particular problem
under the direction of a faculty member of the History Department.
Offered Fall, Spring
HIS 498.  Directed Research in History.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
HIS 500.  Colloq Community History.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HIS 502.  Systems/Thry/Res In His.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HIS 520.  Sem In Hist Preservation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Courses in art history and appreciation are recommended.
An in-depth study of such subjects as a single artist, a period, or a
movement or theme in art history. Student should have a sufficient
background in art vocabulary and concepts to participate. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
HIS 540.  Sem In Mus & Matrl Cult.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HIS 550.  Sem Archives.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 243
Human Resources Management
(HRM)
HRM 313.  Human Resources Management.  (3 Units)  
Current theory and practice of the personnel function in organizations.
Includes job analysis, recruiting, selection, training and development,
compensation, performance evaluation and contemporary quality of work
life issues and job redesign; uses case analysis, lecture and role-playing.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HRM 316.  Labor & Industrial Relations.  (3 Units)  
The Labor/Management process in private sector organizations;
development of employee organizations; collective bargaining; contract
administration; labor law, labor economics; role of the NLRB and the
FMCS; case analysis and role-playing.
Offered Fall, Spring
HRM 318.  Training and Development.  (3 Units)  
Practical skills needed to design and facilitate effective training programs
in organizations. This highly interactive course focuses on strategies for
assessing, designing, and implementing training and development efforts
that positively impact the performance of the individual and the work
group.
Offered Fall
HRM 321.  Compensation and Benefits.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310. Focuses on best practices in compensation,
particularly how to design effective compensation systems. Topics will
include legal aspects of compensation and design of base pay systems,
incentive plans, and benefit packages.
Offered Fall, Spring
HRM 425.  Seminar in Strategic HRM.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310, HRM 313 and HRM 321 (or concurrent
enrollment). Integrates human resource management functions from
the strategic perspective, dealing with environments, Human Resources
Management (HRM) strategies, HR planning, legal issues, and labor
relations in combination with basic HRM functions. Focuses on both
theoretical and practical aspects.
Offered Fall, Spring
HRM 520.  Essentials of HRM.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MGT 500 or concurrent enrollment. Focuses on best
practices in essential areas of human resource management: job
analysis, recruiting, selection, training and development. Students learn
how to develop effective HR selection practices, as well as training
programs and career paths that motivate employees.
Offered Infrequent
HRM 521.  Compensation and Benefits.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HRM 520 and MGT 500. Focuses on best practices in
compensation. Students will learn how to design effective compensation
plans and policies, as well as laws regarding pay and benefits.
Offered Infrequent
HRM 525.  Strategic HRM.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HRM 520 and HRM 521 (HRM 521 may be taken
concurrently). Focuses on strategic aspects of human resource
management, including strategic perspectives on human resources, labor
relations, legal issues and global human resource management. Uses
both a theoretical approach and real work-setting case application.
Offered Infrequent
Human Services (HUS)
HUS 195.  Special Topics in Human Services.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of special interest for students in the selected area of study. Topic
and content will vary as announced.
Offered Infrequent
HUS 295.  Special Topics in Human Services.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of special interest for students in the selected area of study. Topic
and content will vary as announced.
Offered Infrequent
HUS 300.  Introduction To Human Services.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to human services as a profession. Exploration of social
forces that contribute to human needs, issues and problems related
to planning, delivering and evaluating programs. Some site visits are
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 307.  Principles of Mental Health Recovery.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300. Co-requisites: HUS 380 and HUS 381. Examines
the history of mental health treatment and the disparity between recent
research findings and current treatment modalities. The concept of
recover from mental illness will be presented with a focus on psychiatric
rehabilitation (PSR) as a treatment modality support recovery.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 310.  Helping and Professional Relationships.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300. Co-requisites: HUS 380 and HUS 381. Course
will focus on developing professional helping skills with and emphasis
on ethical and professional behavior. Through research and writing int
the disciplinary genres, students will develop verbal and non-verbal
communication skills commonly used in the helping professions. A grade
of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all Human
Services majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 311.  Interventions and Strategies of Mental Health Recovery I.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300. Co-requisites: HUS 380 and HUS 381. Examines
interventions and strategies that enhance recovery from mental illness.
Tools and skills needed as a mental health practitioner will be introduced,
explored and practiced during the course.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 315.  Intercultural Communication for Human Services.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300 is required. Course is designed to facilitate
students' communication skills including becoming more sensitive
to intercultural communication differences, and to provide them with
the knowledge and skills that will help them interact successfully with
clients, coworkers, supervisors and communities who are from different
cultures.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 330.  Human Behavior and the Social Environment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300. Critically applies human services theories on the
assessment of human behavior in the biological, psychological and social
development of people over the lifespan with special focus on diversity
such as race, gender, class and disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
244 Human Services (HUS)
HUS 368.  Interventions and Strategies of Mental Health recovery II.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 307 and HUS 311. Co-requisites: HUS 484
and HUS 485. This course will focus on the three major evidenced
based therapies (Cognitive Behavior-CBT, Dialectical Behavioral-DBT,
and Motivational Interviewing- MIT) that help people with severe and
persistent mental illness.
Offered Spring
HUS 380.  Fieldwork Practicum in Human Services I.  (2 Units)  
Corequisite: HUS 381 is required. This is the first of three supervised
fieldwork experience with an emphasis on human services and
educational settings. students will examine structure and functioning,
observe professional relationships and discover interagency network.
Students will then begin to apply their knowledge to basic level helping
skills with agency clients. May not be taken concurrently with any other
fieldwork courses.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 381.  Seminar in Human Services I.  (1 Units)  
Corequisite: HUS 380 is required. First of three fieldwork seminar
courses in Human Services, which is structured to facilitate integration
of Human Services knowledge and theory with practical fieldwork
application. Students will be able to examine and integrate personal and
professional values and understand their personal selves as participants
in professional roles. Each weekly seminar will include time to problem
solve and share field experiences.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 390.  Field Practicum in HUS II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 380 and HUS 381. Co-requisites: HUS 391
and HUS 400 required. Second of three supervised fieldwork experiences
with an emphasis on human services and educational settings. Students
will apply their knowledge of human services theory and skills to
intermediate level of helping with agency clientele. This course is taken
concurrently with HUS 391 Seminary in Human Services II. May not be
taken concurrently, however, with any other field work courses. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUS 391.  Seminar in Human Services II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 380 and HUS 381. Co-requisites: HUS 390
and HUS 400 required. Second of three fieldwork seminar courses in
Human Services with is structured to facilitate integration of Human
Services knowledge and theory with practical fieldwork application.
Students will be able to examine and integrate personal and professional
values and understand their personal selves as participants in
professional roles. Each weekly seminar will include time to problem
solve and share field experiences.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUS 395.  Spc Topics in Human Services.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of a topic of interest to the Human Services profession. Topics will
vary as announced but generally focus on the delivery of human services
by examining theories, policies, advocacy, and methods. Three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered As needed
HUS 396.  Practicum in Human Services.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300. May not be taken concurrently with any other
field course. Supervised field experience, with an emphasis on human
services and educational settings. Supervision emphasizes training and
application of clinical, interviewing, and other helping skills, didactic
methods, group techniques, methods of evaluation and/or other skills
specific to fieldwork needs.
Offered As needed
HUS 400.  Case Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300. Co-requisites: HUS 390 and HUS 391. Models of
institutional service delivery and case management systems. Principles
of and critical issues in case management, including collaborative and
interagency services.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUS 410.  Advanced Case Management - Working with Special
Populations.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 310, HUS 380, HUS 381, HUS 390, and
HUS 400 are required. Co-requisite: HUS 480 and HUS 481 are required.
Focuses on introducing students to different populations commonly
seen in human services agencies. Course will address theoretical
underpinnings for human services and contain the basic description of
best practice that will focus the student's attention on how to carry out
certain functions ethically and competently.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 460.  Research Methods for Human Services.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300. Elementary statistics. This course is an overview
of research methods in human services, including study design, sampling
data collection and analysis, statistical techniques and report writing.
Also included is a critical analysis of published research and examination
of relevance of data to decision making.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUS 480.  Fieldwork Practicum in Human Services III.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 380, HUS 381, HUS 390 and HUS 391 are
required. Co-requisites: HUS 410 and HUS 481 are required. Third of three
supervised fieldwork experiences with an emphasis on human services
and educational settings. Students will apply their knowledge of human
services theory and skills at an intermediate level of helping with agency
clientele. This course is taken concurrently with HUS 481 Seminar in
Human Services III. May not be taken concurrently, however, with any
other fieldwork courses. Students complete 180 hours in their fieldwork
placement.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUS 481.  Seminar in Human Services III.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 300, HUS 380, HUS 381, HUS 390 and HUS 391 are
required. Co-requisites: HUS 410 and HUS 481 are required. This is the
third of three fieldwork seminar courses in Human Services which is
structured to facilitate integration of Human Services knowledge and
theory with practical fieldwork application. Students will be able to
examine and integrate personal and professional values and understand
their personal selves as participants in professional roles. Each weekly
seminar will include time to problem solve and share field experiences.
Students must also do an oral case presentation with one of their clients.
This course is taken concurrently with HUS 480 and cannot be taken
concurrently with any other fieldwork course. Students complete 180
hours in their fieldwork placement.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 245
HUS 484.  Practicum in MHR.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 307 and HUS 311. Co-requisites: HUS 368 and
HUS 485. Supervised field experience with an emphasis on mental health
recovery and working with the severely and persistently mentally ill.
Students are placed in a community mental health agency where they
will apply their knowledge and skills of mental health recovery. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Spring
HUS 485.  Seminar in Mental Health Recovery.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 307 and HUS 311. Co-requisites: HUS 368 and
HUS 484. Weekly seminar course structured to facilitate the integration
of mental health recovery knowledge and skills with practical field
application. The seminar is designed to allow students to achieve
integration of classroom learning with direct experiences in the agency
setting.
Offered Spring
HUS 490.  International Studies in HUS.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300 required. The course focuses on the comparative
analyses of human services policies and service between the U.S. and
the host country (varies). Students will travel abroad to experience firsthand knowledge of the influences of social welfare policy on service
delivery.
Offered All terms
HUS 494.  Independent Study in Human Services.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. A course of study designed
cooperatively by student and instructor to accomplish individualized
learning objectives that are appropriate to the human services
profession.
Offered As needed
HUS 495.  Special Topics in Human Services.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Advanced course of special interest
for students in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as
announced.
Offered As needed
HUS 496.  Internship in Human Services.  (3-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: HUS 396 Or PSY 396. May not be taken concurrently with
any other fieldwork course. Survey of professional and ethical issues
in the helping professions. Supervised internships in human services
settings.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Humanities (HUM)
HUM 204.  Introduction to the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
An examination of the interrelationships among the humanities
(literature, art, music, and philosophy) in Western and global culture from
the early modern period to the contemporary period.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 300.  Health Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Health Humanities bridges the arts, humanities, and sciences in studying
representations of health and illness. Students will gain a multicultural
understanding of perceptions of health practices and practitioners.
Topics include self-mutilation (cutting), race and medicine, cancer, music
therapy, cloning, aging, and poetry and healing.
Offered Fall, Summer
HUM 301.  Mind/Brain and the Arts.  (3 Units)  
Mind/Brain and the Arts bridges the arts, humanities, and the sciences in
examining human creativity, embodied reception of the arts, and creative
representations of mental states, including mental health disorders, in
relation to the science of the mind/brain.
Offered Spring, Summer
HUM 302.  Lives of Faust: Deals with the Devil.  (3 Units)  
Deals with the devil exert an extraordinary grip on imagination, inspiring
creativity and provocative social criticism. This cross-cultural approach
to the magician Faust's devil bargain explores its deployment in critique
of consumerism, racism, sexism, colonialism, nuclear weapons, and
environmental issues.
Offered Spring, Summer
HUM 303.  All Creatures Great & Small: Animals from Sacred to
Endangered.  (3 Units)  
Animals have inspired many works in the arts and humanities around
the world. This cross-cultural course explores creative representations
of species in relation to the sacred, social criticism and humor,
commodification, and consumption, in visual culture, literature, music and
dance.
Offered Fall
HUM 304.  Vampires.  (3 Units)  
Course takes a cross-cultural approach to the concept of the vampire
around the world. Students get their teeth into representations of
vampires in the arts and humanities examined from critical and scientific
perspectives.
Offered Spring, Summer
HUM 305.  Never Lose Infinite Hope: Imagining Justice, Cultivating
Mental Wellness.  (3 Units)  
"[N]ever lose infinite hope.": Martin Luther King, Jr.'s advice inspires this
exploration of socially engaged works/practices (art, music, literature,
theatre, media) from psychotherapeutic wellness perspectives applying
critical race theory in addressing mental wellness of people of color in the
US.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 310.  Key Concepts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUM 200 or equivalent. Analysis of a major concept in
humanistic thought and expression, e.g. the individual and society,
success and values in the U.S., death and dying, war and society, global
popular music, etc. Repeatable with different topics for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 312.  Key Movements.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUM 200 or equivalent. Analysis of a major historical
movement from a humanistic perspective, e.g. Harlem Renaissance,
Modernism, the Jazz Age, African Literature and Culture, Medieval Japan
and Europe, etc. Repeatable with different topics for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 314.  Key Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUM 200 or equivalent. Analysis of major contemporary
issues from a humanities perspective. Examples include the role of the
arts in society, literature and the rights of women, romantic love, visions
of Los Angeles, etc. Repeatable with different topics for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
246 Humanities External Degree (HUX)
HUM 490.  Seminar In Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of 9 units selected from 300 and 400 level
Humanities courses. A multidisciplinary synthesis emphasizing cultural,
historical, or aesthetic-perceptual insights in the humanities. Topics vary.
Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
HUM 496.  Internship in Arts and Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior standing and/or approval of the student's major
department is required; completion of a minimum of 27 upper division
units in the major is recommended. Directed work experience in fields
across the arts and humanities. Ideally, such work provides a practical
bridge linking the student's academic studies with the world of work. A
minimum of 8 hours per week of supervised work experience under the
direction of a professionally-qualified mentor.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 500.  The Humanities in the City.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to graduate level study in the humanities using the theme
of the humanities in the city. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUM 512.  Texts and Language.  (3 Units)  
Examination of contemporary issues addressing what we read, how we
read, and why we read. Examples from literature and philosophy. Includes
the refining of skills in research and writing. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall
HUM 520.  Seminar In Art.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of visual culture with emphasis upon modern and contemporary
models approached through a range of theoretical approaches including
those relevant to the cohort theme.
Offered Fall
HUM 522.  Seminar In Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Courses in literary interpretation and history are
recommended. Advanced work in a variety of topics in literature;
assumes a working knowledge of the basic concepts and vocabulary of
the discipline. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
HUM 523.  Seminar In Music.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Courses in music history, theory, and appreciation are
recommended. Advanced work in a variety of topics including study of a
period, a cluster of composers, a movement, or music of a single country.
Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
HUM 524.  Seminar In Philosophy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Previous courses in philosophy are recommended. Offers
advanced work in a variety of topics such as the work of individual
philosophers, or specific problems of epistemology or metaphysics.
Assumes working knowledge of the basic vocabulary and concepts of the
discipline. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
HUM 528.  Images and Artifacts.  (3 Units)  
Examination of art, artifacts, architecture, murals, masks and other
objects that are carriers of social, cultural, and aesthetic values. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
HUM 535.  Seminar in Film.  (3 Units)  
Advanced work in a variety of topics in film studies; assumes a working
knowledge of the basic concepts and vocabulary of the discipline.
Offered Spring
HUM 540.  Sem His: Moments Crisis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Previous courses in history are recommended. The study
of a period or theme in history through the lens of the humanities.
Assumes a working knowledge of the basic concepts and vocabulary of
the discipline. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
HUM 582.  Performance & Criticism.  (3 Units)  
A systematic examination of the theory, practice, and aesthetics of formal
and informal criticism applied to performances in music, theatre, dance,
and art films.
Offered Spring
HUM 594.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Previous courses in the humanities are required. A special
project involving research or creative work. Also extensive reading in
consultation with a faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUM 595.  Special Topics in Humanaities.  (3 Units)  
An intensive study of selected issues in the arts and humanities. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
HUM 598.  Comprehensive Examination.  (3 Units)  
Comprehensive examination over coursework and set texts. The degree
candidate taking the exam must have either completed all coursework or
be planning to complete it in the semester the exam is taken. Preparatory
session required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUM 599.  Final Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Advancement to candidacy and consent of program
coordinator. Thesis or creative project related to the student's particular
combination of humanities studies. If creative project, extensive prior
preparation required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUM 600.  Grad Continuation.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, must maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Humanities External Degree (HUX)
HUX 345.  The Non-Western World: China and Japan.  (3 Units)  
Interdisciplinary study of the non-western world by focusing on some of
the art, philosophy and music of China and Japan.
Offered Infrequent
HUX 346.  Alienation, Estrangement, and Subcultures.  (3 Units)  
Survey of the elements and historical implications of alienation.
Examination of Hispanic and African American cultures.
Offered Fall, Infrequent
HUX 347.  Images of Humanity: World Religious Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
Survey of ancient and modern religious systems focusing upon general
characteristics of religious belief.
Offered Spring
HUX 448.  Val & Morality 20th Century.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HUX 472.  Key Persp: Phil.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 247
HUX 474.  Age Of Revolution.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
HUX 500.  Foundations of the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Provides an overview of core ideas, research, and writing in the
humanities. Traces the historical origins of humanistic ideals and
examines the influence of these cultural ideals on human life across time,
place and history.
Offered Fall
HUX 506.  Introduction to the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Provides a non-comprehensive overview of human culture, particularly
literature, history, music and philosophy, with an emphasis on diverse
cultural and national traditions as well as social justice and morality.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUX 507.  Graduate Writing in the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Teaches students how to communicate in the humanities through
academic writing that is supported by primary and secondary sources.
Students will explore a variety of subjects, including art, gender, labor,
music and race, to understand the humanities.
Offered Fall
HUX 512.  History and the Human Endeavor.  (3 Units)  
Explores how historians use a variety of documents to understand human
thought and behavior. Students analyze and contextualize documents,
find sources for their own projects and draw conclusions about the
human experience in relation to cohort theme.
Offered Fall
HUX 513.  Literature and the Human Experience.  (3 Units)  
Examines key literary works across a range of genres. Uses various
literary methodologies such as structuralism, Marxism, cultural studies
and postcolonial theory to explore the multiple ways literature impacts
humanity.
Offered Fall
HUX 514.  Music and Hearing Humanity.  (3 Units)  
Presents music as fundamental to human identity. Engaging hey works,
students examine composers, popular movements, and music's rich
meaning located through focused topics.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 515.  Visual Expression and Humanity.  (3 Units)  
Special Topics course using nonstandard times and/or days to explore
issues in the human behavior and attitudes. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall
HUX 516.  Philosophy and Human Being.  (3 Units)  
Offers a philosophical examination of fundamental questions about being
human, such as the good life, human nature, the mind/body relation, and
the basis of personal identity. Specific attention will be devoted to the
current cohort theme.
Offered Fall
HUX 521.  Humanities Encounter: The Living Theatre.  (3 Units)  
How to recognize, appreciate and evaluate a variety of dramatic
experiences. Requires extensive notebook of descriptions and analyses
of five different types of theatrical performances. Three additional
theatrical encounter descriptions and analyses required.
Offered Fall
HUX 522.  Humanities Encounter: Concert Music.  (3 Units)  
Attendance and analysis of several concerts representing the general
categories of symphonic, vocal and chamber music. Critical reviews
required for each of four musical encounters. Reviews of two additional
musical encounters required.
Offered Spring
HUX 523.  Humanities Encounter: Historical Sites.  (3 Units)  
Exploring the historical roots of one's own community. Requires papers
(including photographs) involving descriptions and analyses of three
different historical sites. Papers on two additional sites required.
Offered Summer
HUX 524.  Humanities Encounter: Film.  (3 Units)  
Watching and analyzing several films with special focus on the
techniques and content of the medium. Requires extensive notebook
of descriptions and analyses of five different film experiences. Three
additional film experience descriptions and analyses required.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUX 525.  Philosophy of Punishment.  (3 Units)  
Explores the theme of incarceration, including its historical roots, within
advanced capitalist societies. We will study the writings of Foucault,
Bentham, Gramsci, and other prominent commentators who focus
critically on incarceration and living in a carceral society.
Offered Fall
HUX 526.  Punishment and Popular Culture.  (3 Units)  
Students will reflect on an array of media sources to more deeply and
critically understand popular culture¿s engagement with criminality
and the justice system and to think about popular culture as a possible
resource for criminal justice reform.
Offered Fall
HUX 527.  History of American Punishment.  (3 Units)  
Covers the history of punishment in the United States from the 17th
century through the present. Emphasizes historiography and the
interconnection of different historical narratives and variables in creating
the modern penal system.
Offered Fall
HUX 528.  Modern Discipline.  (3 Units)  
Explores the contemporary manifestations of discipline through an
interrogation of the diffuse nature of power. The interdisciplinary
humanities texts here offer a reflection on the origins of disciplinary
relationality (between the state, sovereign, and subject) and how their
evolving relations are revealed in technologies of surveillance and
security.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 533.  Prisoner Movement and Theory.  (3 Units)  
An in-depth study of transnational social justice oriented prisoner
movements. All assigned texts are written by incarcerated or formerly
incarcerated peoples. Students will consider systemic roots of carceral
violence while studying how incarcerated peoples have resisted and
strategized for abolition.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 534.  Race, Class and Gender.  (3 Units)  
Modeled after the traditional Ethnic Studies and Women's Studies
course, this course offers an intersectional analysis of the law, policing,
incarceration, and their function in stifling marginalized people from
building together.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 535.  Criminalization, Colonization, and Counterinsurgency.  (0
Units)  
Offers a historical perspective on the fluidity of criminalization and how it
coalesces around specific bodies at different times to justify oppressive
systems from colonization to gentrification.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
248 Humanities External Degree (HUX)
HUX 536.  Abolitionist Futures.  (3 Units)  
Teases out the differences between liberal reform and abolition of prisons
while exploring transformative justice, mutual aid, and how people are
already working to eliminate the prison industrial complex.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 537.  Building and Reforming the Industrial City in the United
States.  (3 Units)  
An interdisciplinary study of cities in the United States from 1880-1920s,
with a focus on the history, literature, art, and social movements of the
time period. Topics include poverty, housing, labor, and legal reform, and
the start of urban planning.
Offered Fall
HUX 538.  Whose House Is It Anyway?: Settler Colonialism, Racial
Capitalism, and the U.S. Housing Market.  (3 Units)  
Explores the settler colonial and racial capitalist roots of the U.S. housing
market. Students will explore historical and contemporary housing
policies and practices, examine empirical data on communities, and
imagine how we can build an equitable housing market.
Offered Fall
HUX 539.  Creating Communities: Contemporary Urban Planning and
Community Development.  (3 Units)  
Critically assesses the role of urban planning in shaping communities.
Students will examine how the regulation of the use of space impacts
community formation and inequality, and how it can be used to create
more equitable cities.
Offered Fall
HUX 541.  The Rational Perspective.  (3 Units)  
The meaning of rationality from the perspectives of philosophy, history,
literature, music, and art. Special emphasis on the possible differences
between scientific and humanistic rationality.
Offered Summer
HUX 542.  The Para-rational Perspective.  (3 Units)  
Interdisciplinary exploration of non-rational alternatives in modern
culture, focusing on thenonlogical, the visionary, and the religious/
mystical.
Offered Fall
HUX 543.  The Autonomous Individual.  (3 Units)  
Interdisciplinary study of the nature of the creative act, including the
following: the artist's vision of self; the defenses of personalism; notions
of aesthetics and of symbolic thought.
Offered Infrequent
HUX 544.  The Individual and Society.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of the position of the individual in the classic and modern
models of social and political organization; conservatism, liberalism,
socialism, anarchism; study of the Utopian tradition; and study of
aesthetic theories that connect the artist with society.
Offered Infrequent
HUX 545.  The Non-Western World.  (3 Units)  
Interdisciplinary examination of the non-western world by focusing on
cultural characteristics of China and Japan.
Offered Infrequent
HUX 547.  World Religious Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
A survey of ancient and modern religious systems, focusing upon an
exploration of the general characteristics of religious beliefs.
Offered Summer
HUX 548.  Values and Morality in Twentieth Century Thought.  (3 Units)  
An examination of values and morality in modern culture against a
backdrop of seemingly amoral scientific and technological progress.
Offered Fall
HUX 556.  Nobel Laureates: Studies in Modern World Literature.  (3
Units)  
Examination of representative major works by recent Nobel Laureates
whose art epitomizes diverse cultural, literary, and social viewpoints.
Authors include Mann, Pirandello, Camus, Kawabata, Solzhenitsyn,
Neruda and Bellow.
Offered Spring, All terms
HUX 570.  Key Periods and Movements, Art: Contemporary.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of the complex cultural development known as modern art
by investigation of six major artistic movements: Cubism, Expressionism,
Dada/Surrealism, Pop Art, Conceptual Art and Technological Art.
Offered Spring
HUX 572.  Key Periods and Movements, Philosophy: The Biblical
Movement.  (3 Units)  
Examination of modern scholarship on the Bible and its impact on
Christianity; analysis of 3 types of Bible interpretation: Fundamentalism,
liberalism and humanism.
Offered Spring
HUX 579.  The Arab World: 600 AD to Present.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUX 501 is recommended. Political and cultural history
of the Arab World from the 7th century to the present. Consideration
of historiographic problems such as the "Great Man," cycles, and the
influence of ideas on events.
Offered Spring
HUX 582.  Seminar in History.  (3 Units)  
Students will learn and use historical practicum skills, including the
proper use of primary sources and secondary source texts, to improve
their understanding, to create sound argument, and to communicate
thoughtfully about the past.
Offered Fall
HUX 586.  Seminar in Philosophy.  (3 Units)  
Examines and evaluates a range of philosophical arguments on the
current HUX cohort theme, giving students an opportunity to develop
coherent positions on such philosophical issues as the nature of human
existence, knowledge, ethical responsibility and human flourishing.
Offered Fall
HUX 590.  Humanities Capstone.  (3 Units)  
This course is designed to enable students to demonstrate the
integration of knowledge from various fields in the Humanities. In
addition, the course launches students into their larger communities and
offers them a deeper knowledge about the connection between systems
of oppression, incarceration, and societal re-entry. This course is taken in
the student's final semester.
Offered Fall, Spring
HUX 594A.  Independent Study: Literature.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 249
HUX 594B.  Independent Study: History.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Spring
HUX 594C.  Independent Study: Philosophy.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Spring, Summer
HUX 594D.  Independent Study: Music.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Summer
HUX 594E.  Independent Study: Art.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Spring, Summer
HUX 594F.  Independent Study: Interdisc Topic.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator, via
signed contract. Individually designed faculty-guided study of a topic
in Literature, History, Philosophy, Music, Art, and Interdisciplinary
topics. Repeatable for credit. A maximum of 9 units may be taken as
Independent Study. No more than 6 units of Independent Study may be
taken in one term.
Offered Fall
HUX 595.  Special Topics in the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of program coordinator. Concentrated study of
a specialized area in the Humanities on a selected topic of particular
interest to faculty and students.
Offered As needed
HUX 598S.  Final Project Proposal.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of Phases I and II; consent of instructor and
program coordinator via signed contract. Required of all HUX M.A.
students. Must be passed with grade of A-B before registering for Final
Project (HUX 599).
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 599A.  Final Project: Thesis.  (4-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of Phases I and II; consent of instructor and
program coordinator via signed contract. An individually planned project
based on course work taken in the program and involving basic research
in a single discipline or an interdisciplinary topic. Supervised Thesis
(599A) or Creative Project (599B).
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 599B.  Final Proj: Creative Project.  (4-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of Phases I and II; consent of instructor and
program coordinator via signed contract. An individually planned project
based on course work taken in the program and involving basic research
in a single discipline or an interdisciplinary topic. Supervised Thesis
(599A) or Creative Project (599B).
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
HUX 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis or project, or who have other requirements remaining for
the completion of their degree, must maintain continuous attendance
by enrolling in this course.Â May be taken only after Advancement to
Candidacy and for a maximum of 3 times.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Information Technology (ITC)
ITC 101.  Introduction to Information Technology.  (3 Units)  
Designed to introduce the fundamentals of information technology.
This includes, introduction to a variety of computer tools and computer
concepts with an emphasis on information technology
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 251.  System Programming in C and Unix.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121 is required. Provides a substantial exposure to the
C programming language and the Unix programming environment for
students with some prior programming experience but minimal exposure
to C.
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 300.  Security in a Digital Society.  (3 Units)  
This course provides students with an understanding of what is involved
in the journey of positioning the computer, security, privacy, internet, and
cloud as a valuable service provide to the business and personal life of
the digital society.
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 310.  IT Project Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 301 is required. Aims to provide students with the basic
skills, knowledge and competence to effectively understand and manage
information technology projects. This course prepares students to gain a
practical and theoretical foundation for managing IT projects.
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 395.  Selected Topics in Information Technology.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
technology not covered by current course offerings. May be used for
elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed
ITC 399.  IT Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor is required. The information
technology internship program allows students to gain hands-on
experience in a technology environment by spending one semester
as an intern in the Information Technology Division or a related area.
The internship program provides students with the opportunity to gain
technical experience related to their studies and to prepare them for
future career opportunities in the field. CR/NC grading only.
Offered Fall, Spring
250 Interdisciplinary Studies (IDS)
ITC 453.  Database Management Systems (DBMS).  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 is required. Covers the design methodology
process for databases and how to verify its structural correctness.
Students will learn how to implement databases and applications
software, primarily in the relational model. This is through using querying
languages, primarily SQL, and other database supporting software;
and applying the theory behind various database models and query
languages. It also includes implementing security and integrity policies
relating to databases working in group settings during design.
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 459.  IT Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 or consent of instructor is required. Information
Technology Security aims at securing systems that remain dependable
in the face of malice, error or mischance. This course covers a number of
principles, methods, tools and good practices to secure systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
ITC 492.  Senior Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ITC 453 is required. Intensive study under the guidance
of a member of the Information Technology (IT) faculty to complete a
research project from start to end. Students will study system design and
total project planning and management. A formal written report and oral
presentation will be required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Interdisciplinary Studies (IDS)
IDS 210.  Introduction to Environmental Studies.  (3 Units)  
Provides students with an overview of environmental philosophy,
policy, and literature examining a range of interrelated social and
scientific aspects of ecological, socioeconomic, political, aesthetic, and
technological factors that influence the quality of life on earth.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
IDS 255.  Lang & Meth Of Sci (PACE).  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
IDS 295.  Special Topics in Interdisciplinary Studies.  (3 Units)  
A broad study of an issue or a concept in Interdisciplinary Studies
that is of special interest to faculty and students. Topics vary (e.g.,
Special Topics: Labor and the Environment, Environmental Ethics, Global
Sustainability; Environmental Literature; Water in the American West).
Repeatable course. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall
IDS 300.  Introduction to Interdisciplinary Studies.  (3 Units)  
Provides an introduction to the theories and practices of interdisciplinary
studies in humanities, social sciences, and natural sciences. Course
includes research methods, writing for the various disciplines, and
development of analytical and synthesizing skills necessary for success
in Interdisciplinary Studies.
Offered Fall
IDS 304.  Issues in Global Studies.  (3 Units)  
Explores issues confronting our global community by employing multidisciplinary, transnational, and post colonial approaches; examines
how global studies is defined and its impact historically and currently;
acquaints students with regional concerns as distinct from and
contributing to global issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 310.  Global Climate Change.  (3 Units)  
Examines the history of climate science and how acceptance and denial
of science impacts the geopolitical landscape, including personal,
regional, national, and global responsibility to implement a transition to a
just and sustainable future on a finite planet.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 312.  Interdisciplinary Approaches to the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Each topic for this course examines an important issue in the
Humanities, using a methodology incorporating multiple disciplines and
placing the content in a historical and cultural context.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 318.  Interdisciplinary Approach to Cultural Pluralism.  (3 Units)  
Each topic for this course examines an important social issue in the
Social Sciences, using a methodology incorporating multidisciplinary
approaches, cultural diversity, and social interaction. Repeatable for
credit with different topics.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 320.  Interdisciplinary Topics in Human Studies.  (3 Units)  
Provides an in-depth study of a topic in human behavior and attitudes.
The topic will be examined using interdisciplinary perspectives. Examples
of topics include class and careers, immigration and cultural impact and
poverty. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
IDS 321.  Global Los Angeles.  (3 Units)  
How does a locality - Los Angeles - become identifiable as a global city?
One aspect of LA's global status is its diverse population, but other
influences include international trade, economic interests, popular
culture, environmental entanglements, among many interrelated
globalizing factors.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 322.  Transnational Stories.  (3 Units)  
Using literature, film, and other visual an narrative forms, course explores
the differences and commonalities of representation in the works of the
human imagination in a global and historical context.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 325.  Global Gender and Sexuality.  (3 Units)  
Examines the emergence and development of lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender rights movements around the world. Course themes include
the intersectionalities of race/ethnicity and class with gender and
sexuality; the dynamic nature of identity; and cultural, political, religious,
and historical contexts.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 326.  Perspectives In Human Studies.  (3 Units)  
Special Topics course using nonstandard times and/or days to explore
issues in the human behavior and attitudes. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
IDS 330.  Interdisciplinary Topics in Civilizations.  (3 Units)  
Provides an in-depth analysis of a major topic in the history of ideas and
institutions through the study of the topic in relation to the disciplines
relevant to the topic. Sample topics include archetypal patterns in
literature and history of modern thought. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
2024-25 University Catalog 251
IDS 332.  Global Conflict and Cooperation.  (3 Units)  
Using social science methods and providing an historical context, course
explores ways in which globalization may generate social, political,
economic, or environmental pressures and conflicts as well as elicit
and even enable cooperation among individuals, localities, regions, and
nations.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 336.  American Studies in the Humanities.  (3 Units)  
Provides an in-depth analysis of an issue, region, perspective, or historical
era of the United States from a comparative, multidisciplinary humanities
perspective. Courses incorporate some of the following disciplines:
literature, history, film, philosophy, art, and drama. Repeatable with
different topics.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
IDS 340.  Interdisc Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
IDS 341.  Developing a Digital Professional Identity.  (1 Units)  
Introduces writing concepts critical to transitioning into a professional
writing an practice. Students will learn to recognize and apply patterns
of writing in professional settings. Students will assess and synthesize
organizational information and compose digitial compositions for public
facing content.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 350.  Interdisciplinary Topics in Environmental Studies.  (3 Units)  
Provides an in-depth examination of major concepts in environmental
science, including ecology, evolution, diseases, loss of biodiversity,
global warming, and the public policies needed to address complex
contemporary problems. Courses involve methods of scientific inquiry.
Repeatable with different topics.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 353.  California Ecosystems.  (3 Units)  
This course will examine the diversity of California's ecosystems
historically and the ways they have influenced and responded to human
activities. It will also explore the current crisis that these ecosystems
face due to climate change.
Offered Fall
IDS 360.  Special Studies in Civilizations.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division status and permission of instructor. This
course will investigate one or more special topics in Western and/or Non
Western civilizations. Instruction will usually include off-campus activity
such as, but not limited to, foreign travel. Repeatable course
Offered Infrequent
IDS 395.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Intensive study of a particular aspect of interdisciplinarity. Topic may
provide the opportunity to pursue a creative endeavor in a seminar
setting. Repeatable for credit. Exact topic will be listed in the class
schedule.
Offered As needed
IDS 397.  Writing Adjunct.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 108/109 or ENG 110 required. IDS 397 and IDS 398
are two linked courses that provide the opportunity for students to
develop a writing practice that allows them to ¿situate themselves as
writers, readers, and students within broader disciplinary conversations.
¿ Students will become fluent readers and writers across a variety of
disciplines as they establish a writing practice. Students will learn and
apply theories and scholarship from a variety of disciplines in order to
write original essays and/or research projects. At the end of the IDS 397,
students will create a writing portfolio to document the transformation
of their writing. Students are welcome to take IDS 397 as a stand-alone
course for writing support. To fulfill the GWAR requirement, students
must take IDS 397 and IDS 398.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 398.  Writing Adjunct (Competency Certification).  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: IDS 397. IDS 397 and IDS 398 are two linked courses that
provide the opportunity for students to develop a writing practice that
allows them to situate themselves as writers, readers, and students
within broader disciplinary conversations.Students will become fluent
readers and writers across a variety of disciplines as they establish a
writing practice. Students will learn and apply theories and scholarship
from a variety of disciplines in order to write original essays and/or
research projects. At the end of the IDS 398 students will create a writing
portfolio to document the transformation of their writing. When both
IDS 397 and IDS 398 are taken, the two courses fulfill GWAR.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 490.  Interdisciplinary Studies Senior Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Students draw from their interdisciplinary perspectives and
methodologies to address contemporary issues and review and apply
theories and information from previous classes. A grade of C or better in
this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all Interdisciplinary Studies
majors.
Offered Infrequent
IDS 491.  Thematic Proj Proposal.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Supervised development of a proposal
which describes the Thematic Project. Proposal will define a problem,
outline means to solve problem and describe the final product resulting
from the project. Completed proposal contain advisor's justification and
will be approved by committee. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
IDS 492.  Thematic Proj Fieldwork.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Supervised activity in fieldwork and/
or research necessary to carry through a thematic project. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
IDS 493.  Them Proj:Final Product.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Supervised activity in preparation
of the final product necessary to carry through a thematic project.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
IDS 494.  Independent Study.  (2-15 Units)  
Independent pursuit of a topic or project which is proposed by the
student. Study must be interdisciplinary and must be approved, in
advance, by faculty member supervising study. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
252 Italian (ITA)
IDS 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Italian (ITA)
ITA 110.  Beginning Italian I.  (3 Units)  
Graduate level analysis and discussion under direction of supervising
faculty member in Labor Studies or a related field.
Offered Fall
ITA 111.  Beginning Italian II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ITA 110 is required. Continuation of basic instruction in
Italian (ITA 110). Training in speaking, listening, reading, and writing for
students with prior course in Italian.
Offered Spring
Japanese (JPN)
JPN 110.  Beginning Japanese I.  (3 Units)  
An intensive audio-lingual approach to modern spoken Japanese for
students who have no previous work in Japanese (with Japanese
progressively replacing English as the medium of classroom
communication).
Offered Fall, All terms
JPN 111.  Beginning Japanese II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: JPN 110 or equivalent. A continuation of Japanese 110.
Introduction of Hiragana and Kanji (characters) gradually during the
semester; elementary reading exercises accompany the spoken language
materials.
Offered Spring
JPN 230.  Japanese Conversation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: One year of Japanese or consent of instructor. Speaking
proficiency in standard modern Japanese. Practice through dialogue and
individual presentations to develop fluency for personal, commercial, and
cultural activities. May be repeated to a maximum of 6 units. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
Kinesiology (KIN)
KIN 100.  Adapt Phys Fit.  (1 Units)  
Physical fitness evaluation, exercise prescription and individualized
programs designed for disabled students and any student with a
temporary or permanent fitness need. Repeatable course. Two hours of
activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 111.  Aerobics.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 112.  Aerobics: Step.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 113.  Social and Folk Dance Activity.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 114.  Badminton.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 116.  Baseball.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 118.  Basketball.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 125.  Bicycling/All Levels/Velo.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 130.  Golf.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 132.  Gymnastics.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 134.  Jogging.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 140.  Lifeguard Training.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 253
KIN 141.  Martial Arts.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 142.  Physical Conditioning.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 145.  Relaxation Techniques.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 148.  Soccer/Indoor.  (1 Units)  
The following courses are designed to promote active lifestyles and
are open to all university students. Prerequisites for intermediate level
classes are beginning level or equivalent. Prerequisites for advanced
level classes are intermediate level or equivalent. Students assume
responsibility for satisfactory health status appropriate for activity
classes. The courses are repeatable. Two hours of activity per week. Fee
required for KIN 116-180.
Offered As needed
KIN 150.  Soccer/Outdoor.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 152.  Softball.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 154.  Stretch & Flex.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 156.  Swimming/All Levels.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 158.  Swimming/Conditioning.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 162.  Tennis.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 164.  Volleyball.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 168.  Walking For Health.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 170.  Weight Training.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 171.  Yoga.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 180.  Intramurals.  (1 Units)  
Participation in competitive intramural activities. Tournaments
conducted in sports such as basketball, badminton, tennis, volleyball and
additional activities based upon student interest. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 190.  Intercollegiate Athletics - Sports Men.  (1 Units)  
Instruction and participation in selected major team sports such as
basketball, baseball, golf, and soccer that comprise the intercollegiate
athletic program. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 191.  Intercollegiate Athletics - Sports Women.  (1 Units)  
Instruction and participation in selected major team sports such as
basketball, softball, volleyball, cheerleading, soccer, and cross country
that comprise the intercollegiate athletic program. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 218.  First Aid And Cpr.  (3 Units)  
Provides opportunity to qualify for American Red Cross certification in
Standard First Aid and CPR. Students study and practice administering
first aid techniques; examine accident and injury prevention measures;
and train to master cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques. Fee
required.
Offered As needed
254 Kinesiology (KIN)
KIN 223.  Intro To Pe.  (3 Units)  
Examination of bodies of knowledge that make up the fields of Physical
Education and Dance Education. Analysis of how disciplinary theories
translate into workable practices in a diverse culture. Course includes
career guidance and overview of career options. (Students entering the
Physical Education major are required to enroll in this course their first
semester of study.)
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 233.  Prac.in Phys.Act.Instruction.  (3 Units)  
Designed to provide initial instruction in a variety of pedagogical
knowledge related to teaching physical education for grades K-12.
Students will be provided with opportunities to learn and demonstrate
current best teaching practices. Emphasis is placed on learning and
practicing effective planning, teaching, and reflective behaviors.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 235.  Lifetime Fitness.  (3 Units)  
Examination of components of fitness; training principles, energy
sources; nutrition and weight control research; stress reduction
techniques; and fitness programs. Fitness assessment and development
of personalized fitness program. Meets General Education requirement
for Whole Person.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 250.  Analysis of Aquatics.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to swimming, diving, synchronized swimming, aqua
aerobics, water games and water safety. One hour of lecture and two
hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 251.  Analysis of World Dance.  (0 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
movement theories, history, culture and appreciations; and adaptations
for special populations related to modern dance, jazz, ballet, social dance,
folk dance, ethnic dance and dance-exercise. One hour of lecture and two
hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 252.  Anlysis Artistic & Rhyth Gym.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
movement theories, judging, history and appreciations; and adaptations
for special populations related to stunts, tumbling, floor exercise;
apparatus work and object manipulation required of artistic and rhythmic
gymnastics. One hour of lecture and two hours of activity per week. Fee
required.
Offered As needed
KIN 253.  Anlysis Archery Bowling & Golf.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to the individual sports of archery, bowling and golf.
One hour of lecture and two hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 254.  Analysis Cond & Martial Arts.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, underlying principles, history, culture and appreciations;
and adaptations for special populations related to all components of
physical conditioning, weight training and martial arts. One hour of
lecture and two hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 255.  Anlys Tennis Pad Ten & Racball.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to tennis, paddle tennis, racquetball and nontraditional racquet games. One hour of lecture and two hours of activity
per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 256.  Anly Badminton & Team Handball.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to individual and dual sports of badminton and team
handball. One hour of lecture and two hours of activity per week. Fee
required.
Offered As needed
KIN 257.  Anly Softball & Track & Field.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to softball, track and field, and non-competitive
diamond games. One hour of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 258.  Anlys Basketball & Volleyball.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to team sports of basketball and volleyball. One hour
of lecture and two hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 259.  Anlysis Flag Football & Soccer.  (2 Units)  
Analysis and refinement of skill requirements; examination of concepts,
rules, strategies, history and appreciations; and adaptations for special
populations related to the field sports of flag football and soccer and nontraditional field activities. One hour of lecture and two hours of activity
per week. Fee required.
Offered As needed
KIN 260.  Sports Officiating.  (2 Units)  
Rules, mechanics and officiating procedures for men's and women's
sports at the interscholastic and intercollegiate levels.
Offered As needed
KIN 290.  Human Anatomy & Physiology I.  (4 Units)  
Introduction to human anatomy and physiology I. Structure and
function of the body systems are covered, with special emphasis
on body orientation and anatomic position, basic physio-chemistry,
musculoskeletal, and nervous systems. Tailored majors in kinesiology
and pre-allied health professions.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 291.  Human Anatomy & Physiology II.  (4 Units)  
A continuation of Human Anatomy & Physiology I. Body systems covered
in this part are the cardiopulmonary, digestive, renal and reproductive
systems. Tailored majors in kinesiology and other health professions.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 295.  Special Topics in Kinesiology.  (4 Units)  
Intensive study of a physical education topic of current interest.
Repeatable course. Three hours lecture and three hours lab. Consent
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 255
KIN 300.  Tests and Measurements in Physical Education.  (3 Units)  
Analysis, evaluation, interpretation, and use of tests and other
assessment methods in physical education. Application of statistical
procedures. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 301.  Kinesiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250 and BIO 251 and either high school or college
physics. Examination of anatomical structure, function, and mechanical
principles relating to human motion, including analytical and practical
application of concepts. Two hours of lecture and three hours of
laboratory per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 302.  Technology Methods in Physical Education and Recreation.  (3
Units)  
Provides students with information on, training in, and experience with
various technology methods and applications related to the Physical
Education and Recreation professions. One hour of lecture and two hours
of laboratory activity per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 303.  Exercise Physiology.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 300; BIO 250 and BIO 251 and either high school or
college chemistry. Study of human function under the stress of muscular
activity per week. Investigation of acute and chronic effects of exercise
on the muscular, pulmonary, cardiovascular, nervous and energy systems.
Examination of principles of training and nutrition. Three hours of lecture
and three hours of laboratory per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 304.  Introduction to Adapted Physical Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: KIN 301. Study of prevalent disabilities with implications for
adapted physical education program development, implementation and
evaluation at the elementary and secondary levels.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 305.  Motor Learning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: KIN 300. Study of human development and learning in the
motor domain. Examination of factors such as growth and maturation,
instructional procedures, sensory and perceptual systems, motor control,
and assessment of motor development.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 306.  Biometric of Human Movement.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Bio120/120L, KIN291, CHE 110, PHY 120, KIN 223, Degree
300's:KIN 300, 301. This course provides students with the knowledge
of movements as it relates to physics. Students will learn biomedical
principles and concepts as they relate to human movement, exercise, and
sports.
KIN 310.  Nutrition for Peak Performance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: KIN 303 Presents principles of nutrition as they apply to
sport, exercise, and peak performance. Topics presented include: energy
release, metabolism, and substrate utilization during exercise, ergogenic
aids, fluid intake, pre-game meals, and health issues related to nutrition.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 320.  History and Philosophy of Physical Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: KIN 223. Study of historical roots and evolution of physical
education, changing value systems that shape physical education
philosophies, and administrative practices which lead to making informed
program decisions.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 330.  Sport and Exercise Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 is required. Through writing, this course examines
psychological theories and research and their application to the sport/
physical activity-related affect, behaviors, and cognitions of individuals.
This course explores how the use of disciplinary knowledge assists
individuals to better communicate within a healthcare framework.
Restricted to majors.A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR
requirement for all Physical Education and Exercise Science majors.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 360.  Prev & Treat Ath Injuries.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250, BIO 251 and KIN 301. Prevention, examination,
and treatment of athletic injuries. Includes methods of taping, bandaging,
therapeutic exercises, training room equipment, protective devices and
supplies. Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Fee required
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 362.  Principles of Athletic Training.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250 and BIO 251, KIN 301. The scientific and clinical
foundation of the filed of athletic training. Emphasis placed on athletic
trainer's role and responsibilities. In depth study of risk management,
prevention, evaluation, recognition, treatment, and rehabilitation of
athletic injuries.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 363.  Principles of Athletic Training Laboratory.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250 and BIO 251. Corequisite: KIN 362. Emphasis on
knowledge, skills, and taping techniques for common athletic injuries and
related evaluation procedures.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 375.  Clin Exp I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250, BIO 251, and KIN 218. Corequisites: KIN 362,
KIN 363. Introduction to clinical experience in athletic training settings.
Basic understanding of clinical aspect of the training profession.
Students in this class are required a minimum 50 hours of observation
and 150 hours of clinical experience (a minimum of 10 per week) in
athletic training settings.
Offered As needed
KIN 376.  Clinical Experience II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 362, KIN 363, KIN 375. Application of taping,
wrapping, bracing, and padding skills; risk management; assessment
and evaluation; pharmacology and nutrition; therapeutic modalities;
therapeutic exercise; specific injury management. Requires a minimum
of 250 clinical experience hours (a minimum of 16 hours a week) in an
athletic training setting.
Offered As needed
KIN 377.  Clinical Experience III.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 376, KIN 461, and KIN 463. Corequisites: KIN 462 and
KIN 464.The application of therapeutic exercise; surgery observation;
specific injury management; clinical experience in various sports teams.
Requires a minimum of 250 clinical experience hours (a minimum of 16
hours a week) in an athletic training setting.
Offered As needed
256 Kinesiology (KIN)
KIN 425.  Pe In The Elementary Sch.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: In order to begin the hours for fieldwork in this course,
you will need a valid Certificate of Clearance (fingerprints) and proof
of a negative TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork course beginning.
For information on submitting these documents, contact the Center for
Teaching Careers.Overview of bodies of knowledge in the field of physical
education and their application to elementary physical education.
Analysis of educational theories and practices as they relate to effectively
teaching physical education to elementary school children. Course
includes peer teaching lessons. Two hours of lecture and two hours of
activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 426.  Directed Teaching in Elementary Physical Education.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 425. In order to begin the hours for fieldwork in this
course, you will need a valid Certificate of Clearance (fingerprints)
and proof of a negative TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork course
beginning. For information on submitting these documents, contact
the Center for Teaching Careers. Planned directed teaching in
elementary physical education at a cooperating elementary school under
professional supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 447.  Dan Educ in the Elem School.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: In order to begin the hours for fieldwork in this course,
you will need a valid Certificate of Clearance (fingerprints) and proof
of a negative TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork course beginning.
For information on submitting these documents, contact the Center
for Teaching Careers. Study of developmentally appropriate dance
education activities for children. Examination of and practice in blending
pedagogical content knowledge with subject matter knowledge to
optimize teaching and learning. Course culminates in peer teaching
lessons, reflections and self-assessment.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 448.  Tchg Effect Sec PE.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: See lower division requirements for major. In order to begin
the hours for fieldwork in this course, you will need a valid Certificate
of Clearance (fingerprints) and proof of a negative TB (within 4 months
of the fieldwork course beginning. For information on submitting these
documents, contact the Center for Teaching Careers. Analysis and
application of recent advances in teaching methodology, observation
techniques, organization and management strategies, and skill and
knowledge acquisition as they relate to effectively teaching secondary
physical education. Course includes peer teaching lessons. Two hours of
lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 449.  Dir Tchg In Sec PE.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 448. In order to begin the hours for fieldwork in this
course, you will need a valid Certificate of Clearance (fingerprints)
and proof of a negative TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork course
beginning. For information on submitting these documents, contact the
Center for Teaching Careers. Planned directed teaching in secondary
physical education at a cooperating secondary school under professional
supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 450.  Teaching Dance.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Intermediate level technique class. Analysis and application
of recent advances in teaching methodology, observation techniques,
organization and management strategies, and skill and knowledge
acquisition as they relate to effectively teaching elementary, secondary
and college dance. Course includes peer teaching experience.
Offered As needed
KIN 461.  Therapeutic Modalities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250, KIN 362, KIN 363, and KIN 375. A theoretical
clinical basis for using therapeutic modalities, providing knowledge
regarding the scientific basis and physiological effects of modalities in
the treatment and rehabilitation of athletic injuries. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 462.  Therapeutic Exercise.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BIO 250, KIN 362, KIN 363, KIN 375. A theoretical and
clinical basis for implementation and intervention of therapeutic
exercise; understanding the basic principles and effects of the variety
of therapeutic exercise techniques; and designing therapeutic exercise
programs.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
KIN 463.  Lower Extremity Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 375. Recommended corequisite: KIN 461. Recognition
and evaluation of orthopedic and athletic injuries; identifying signs,
symptoms and mechanisms of injuries; performing special tests for
specific orthopedic pathologies related to the lower extremity.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 464.  Upper Extremity Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 376. Recommended corequisite: KIN 462. Recognition
and evaluation of orthopedic and athletic injuries; identifying signs,
symptoms and mechanisms of injuries; performing special tests for
specific orthopedic pathologies related to the upper extremity.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 465.  Administration of Athletic Training Programs.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 461, KIN 462, KIN 463, and KIN 464. Administration
and management strategies of the field of athletic training and sports
medicine. Organization planning ideas including principles and
knowledge of program, human, financial, and information management:
facility design and planning; legal aspects and ethical issues.
Offered As needed
KIN 470.  Coaching Techniques for Selected Sports.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 253, KIN 256, KIN 257, KIN 258 and KIN 259; three
out of five are recommended. Analysis and practical application of
techniques for coaching selected sports. Emphasis on organization and
conduct of athletic programs, including program development, coaching
strategies, practice sessions, academic advisement, recruiting and
scouting.
Offered As needed
KIN 471.  Fitness Assessment and Exercise Prescription.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Lower division requirements: Bio 120/120L, KIN 290,
KIN 291, CHE 110, PHY 120, KIN 223, Degree 300s: KIN 300,
301,303,305,306,310,330,360. This course provides student with the
knowledge to conduct physical fitness tests and develop an exercise
prescription for different populations. Emphasis will be placed on testing
and prescription for the major component of physical fitness.
KIN 473.  Principles of Sport Performance Training.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Lower division requirements: BIO 120/120L, KIN 290,291,
CHE 110, PHY120,KIN 223. Degree300s: KIN 300, 301, 305, 306, 310,
330,360. This course provides student with the knowledge of sports
performance assessments and program design for different athletic
populations. Emphasis will be placed sports specific testing, periodizing
programming, and training techniques for specific sports and athletes.
2024-25 University Catalog 257
KIN 475.  Complementary and Integrated Healthcare.  (3 Units)  
Lower division requirements: Bio 120/120L, KIN 290, KIN 291, CHE 110,
PHY 120, KIN 223 Degree 300s: KIN 300, 301,302,305,310,330,360. This
course will provide student with the knowledge regarding complimentary
and alternative healthcare. Student will learn about different eastern and
western therapeutic treatment such as acuouncture, cupping, energy
medicine, yoga and more.
KIN 476.  Clinical Experience IV.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 377, KIN 462, KIN 463, and KIN 464. Corequisite:
KIN 465. The application of specific injury management; clinical
experience in various sports teams. A minimum of 250 clinical experience
hours (a minimum of 16 hours a week) in an athletic training setting are
required.
Offered As needed
KIN 477.  Clinical Experience V.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 476. The application of specific injury management;
clinical experience in various sports teams; peer teaching and
supervision. A minimum of 250 clinical experience hours (a minimum of
16 hours a week) in an athletic training setting are required.
Offered As needed
KIN 480.  Athletic Training Seminar.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 465 and KIN 476. Course is designed for senior
students who are preparing for he NATA BOC examination. Students
in this course are senior level students who have either completed all
necessary NATA competencies or are in their last semester and currently
completing the necessary competencies.
Offered As needed
KIN 490.  Senior Seminar in Physical Education.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior year. For Physical Education majors. Practice writing
and presentation skills through self-reflection, evaluation, and connecting
subject matter areas. Peer and faculty evaluation of student portfolios,
resume writing, curriculum development, mock interviews and program
assessment will be included in the curriculum. One hour of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 493.  Clinical Experiences in PT/AT.  (3 Units)  
Planned internship in Pre-PT at a cooperative institution, agency or
clinical setting under professional supervision. Application of the
principles and skills acquired in the Pr-PT program. Repeatable Course
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 494.  Physical Education: Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Physical Education Major or Minor; upper division
standing. Independent study in physical education, with each student
participating in a special project mutually agreed upon by student and
instructor. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 495.  Special Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
Intensive study of a physical education topic of current interest. May be
repeated for credit to a maximum of 6.0 units. Repeatable course. One to
three hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 496.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Physical Education Major or Minor and upper division
standing are required. KIN 448 is recommended. Planned internship in
physical education at a cooperating institution, agency or company under
professional supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
KIN 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
KIN 500.  Seminar in Contemporary Issues/Topics and Trends in Physical
Education.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of current trends, issues, and problems in Physical Education
academic and athletics programs; examination and analysis of literature
and research findings. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 504.  Physical Fitness Evaluation and Exercise Prescription.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 303 is required; KIN 218 is recommended. Evaluation
of cardiovascular fitness, respiratory capacity, body composition,
strength, muscular endurance and flexibility. Exercise prescription based
upon individual needs, interests and preliminary health and fitness
evaluations. Overview of American Psychological Association's research
methodology.
Offered As needed
KIN 514.  Seminar in Curriculum Development in Physical Education.  (3
Units)  
Intensive study, evaluation, and application of current developments in
curriculum theory and practice for Elementary-Secondary School Physical
Education. Includes designing an innovative physical education/wellness
curriculum project. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 516.  Public Relations and Development.  (3 Units)  
The study of public relations and development issues related to the fields
of physical education and athletics in K-16 school settings. The student
will develop news releases, design promotional public information,
develop mediated presentations addressing programs and development
Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
KIN 593.  Fieldwork in Physical Ed Admin.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 571 and KIN 500 are required; KIN 514 and KIN 516
are recommended. Supervised field experiences at the school level to
include actual job performance in both supervision and administrative in
Physical Education or Athletics. Students will demonstrate competencies
required by the Educational Administration approved program. CR/NC
grading.
Offered As needed
KIN 595.  Special Topics in Kinesiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Advanced course of special interest to
graduate students. Topic and content will vary as announced.
Offered As needed
KIN 599.  Thesis/Creative Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: KIN 500, KIN 514, KIN 516, KIN 593 are required. Student
will execute an individually planned research effort or creative project.
Students work under individual supervision with assigned faculty. May be
repeated up to 6 units.
Offered As needed
KIN 600.  KIN Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
258 Labor Studies (LBR)
Labor Studies (LBR)
LBR 101.  Introduction to Labor Studies: Work, Wealth and Power.  (3
Units)  
Explore questions including: What is work's purpose? What are our rights
on the job? How have labor struggles uplifted working class communities
and shaped the global political economy? How can unions fight for social,
racial, and gender justice across borders?
Offered Fall
LBR 200.  Labor and the Environment.  (3 Units)  
The course will pursue an understanding of the consequences of climate
policies for different categories of workers, identified by economic sector,
geographic location, gender, migration and immigration, and national
status.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 201.  Work/Life: Purpose, Power, and Identity.  (3 Units)  
Explore: What is the role of work in a life well-lived? How do various
cultures view work? should we pursue work we love? That society needs?
How do we handle workplace stress, occupational health, and integrating
careers with other commitments?
Offered All terms
LBR 202.  Class Struggles in Film and Popular Culture.  (3 Units)  
How are workers' lives portrayed in popular culture? We examine media
in global context, discussing how image, text, and sound are used to tell
workers' stories across gender, race, and sexual orientation as they stand
up for dignity and justice.
Offered Spring
LBR 310.  Success and Values.  (3 Units)  
Explores the various ways people and institutions i the Americas define
success, with the underlying question, does one have to sacrifice one's
values to achieve success.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 312.  Decade of the Sixties.  (3 Units)  
Explores the sociopolitical milieu that incited the unrest of the Sixties,
with the war in Vietnam at the center. Focuses on the interaction between
writers, musicians, activists, labor and religious leaders, and the social
movements of the time.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 313.  The Future of Workers and Work.  (3 Units)  
Will the robots take our jobs? Course explores how automation, climate
change, labor unions, and precarious work arrangements will affect the
workplace in decades to come, and outcomes for women, immigrants and
workers of color
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 314.  Key Issues: American Dream.  (3 Units)  
Explores the concept of the American Dream as it is expressed through
literature, art, film, etc. and how people interpret the meaning of the
concept in their own lives in a multiracial society.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 316.  Working Class and Education.  (3 Units)  
What is the purpose of education? What functions does it perform
and whose interests does it advance? Investigation of education as a
network of institutions operating differently on different classes, races
and genders. Evaluation of its position in relation with economy and
governance.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 350.  Research Methods for Social Change.  (3 Units)  
Research methods developed by social movements to guide organizing
and advocacy for social, economic, and political change. Proficiency
in a range of illuminating statistical survey, interview, and mapping
techniques used to expose and challenge exploitation and injustice.
Offered Spring
LBR 365.  Racial Capitalism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Upper division integrative coursework must be taken
after 60 semester units and the lower division components of General
Education (or their equivalent) have been completed. Focuses on
the ways in which race and racism have been central to the political
economic development of the U.S., with a particular focus on
understanding how they were used to develop capitalism and how it
impacts workers in our society.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 395.  Special Topics in Labor Studies.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Course of special interest for students
in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as announced.
Offered As needed
LBR 411.  Contracts & Negotiations.  (3 Units)  
The process of negotiating, writing and enforcing a labor contract.
An overview of the historical events that have affected contemporary
negotiation practices. A survey and analysis of labor contracts in
various sectors of industry, including a workshop in contract writing and
negotiation.
Offered Fall
LBR 412.  Labor Law.  (3 Units)  
Legal history of the American labor movement. Survey of federal and
state laws regulating employment, collective bargaining, contract
clauses, arbitration, collective actions, lockouts, unfair labor practices
and fair employment practices.
Offered Spring
LBR 490.  Seminar In Labor Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior standing or consent of instructor. An integrative
course to study selected topics, to develop an overview of the field and
to relate theory and practical application. Students will develop seminar
papers as they complete an internship in a labor organization or research
an area of labor studies. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
LBR 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor Independent study of particular
topics in the subject area under the direction of a member of the subject
department faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LBR 495.  Special Topics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Advanced course of special interest
for students in the selected area of study. Topic and content will vary as
announced.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBR 496.  Practicum Labor Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor is required. Directed field research or
supervised internship. Training and research in the practice and policies
of a labor organization or labor-related governmental agency. Repeatable
course.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 259
LBR 590.  Graduate Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: MUS 180 is required. Studio instruction in an applied
area that complements and provides additional depth to that which is
offered in MUS 180. In depth study of Etudes, scales, arpeggios, and
supplemental solo repertoire.
Offered As needed
LBR 594.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
A special project involving research or creative work in consultation with
a faculty member. Repeatable for credit.
Offered As needed
LBR 595.  Special Topics in Labor Studies:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor required. An intensive study of an
issue or a concept in Labor Studies of special interest to faculty and
students. Topics vary. Repeatable course
Offered As needed
LBR 598.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent research under direction of supervising faculty member in
Labor Studies or related field. A-B/NC grading only.
Offered As needed
LBR 599.  Graduate Capstone.  (1-3 Units)  
Supervised thesis or special project in Labor Studies.
Offered As needed
Law (LAW)
LAW 240.  Legal Environment of Business.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the legal process; functions and operations within a federal
system; contracts; sales; tort liability as it impacts business; government
regulation of business.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LAW 340.  Law Of Bus Organizations.  (3 Units)  
Legal consequences of selection of one form of business organization
over another; analysis of the law of corporations, partnerships,
and agencies; law of the workplace; corporate ethics and social
responsibilities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LAW 342.  Employment Law.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: LAW 240 is recommended. Overview of the laws impacting
the workplace; anti-discrimination law; employee safety, health and
privacy; the employer-employee contract; labor law; regulatory agencies;
retirement compensation; other statutory rights.
Offered Fall, Spring
LAW 440.  Legal Issues in E-Commerce.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: LAW 240. This course covers the legal aspects of doing
business on-line. Topics covered will include: on-line contracts, e-crimes,
privacy, intellectual property, e-commerce taxation and e-payment
systems.
Offered Infrequent
LAW 495.  Special Topics in Law.  (1-4 Units)  
Study of current topics in Law. Repeatable course
Offered Infrequent
LAW 595.  Selected Topics in Law.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate Standing. Intensive study of a specialized area
of Law on a selected topic of particular interest to faculty and students.
Three hours of seminar per week. Specific topic listed in class schedule.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Liberal Studies (LBS)
LBS 203.  Introduction to Teaching: Becoming a Transformative
Educator.  (3 Units)  
Students will consider the historical and philosophical foundations of
education and state standards that guide effective teaching strategies
in this introduction to teaching course. Students will develop the
knowledge and dispositions to empower the as reflective, creative and
transformative professionals.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LBS 205.  Child and Adolescent Development.  (3 Units)  
Overview of physical, cognitive, social and emotional development
from conception through adolescence. Students will explore and reflect
on conceptual and theoretical theories and methods as well as best
practices for working with children and families in diverse/pluralistic
communities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LBS 212.  Service Learning in Urban Elementary Schools.  (3 Units)  
Introductory course utilizes a service-learning approach to explore
culturally and linguistically responsive teaching and learning
environments in urban elementary schools. Students will observe,
participate and reflect throughout the course with linkages to learning
outcomes. Requires 30 hours of service.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 300.  Early Field Experience.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: California Commission on Teacher Credentialing Certificate
of Clearance, current negative TB documentation and scores for all three
sections of the CBEST. Provides Liberal Studies majors with planned,
structured field experiences in classrooms at the elementary school level
(K-6). A minimum of 30 hours of structured, documented observation/
participation in public elementary schools (K-6) is required. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Infrequent
LBS 301.  Schooling in a Multicultural Society.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: LBS 203 is required. Students will explore the themes of
social justice education including the complex relationship between
education and the multicultural society of the U.S. They will analyze
social identities and how discrimination based on these factors
translates into school structures, policies and practices.
Offered All terms, Infrequent
LBS 302.  Responsive Teaching and Classroom Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: LBS 301 and CCTC Certificate of Clearance, Negative TB
Documentation and scores from all 3 sections of CBEST are required.
Restricted to majors. Corequisite: LBS 303 is recommended. Students
observe and think critically about culturally and linguistically responsive
teaching and learning environments to develop knowledge of teaching
and classroom management strategies and create inclusive, productive
and well-structured learning environments. Requires 30 hours of
observation in a public school.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
LBS 303.  Teaching and Learning in Diverse Classrooms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: LBS 301 Co-requisite: LBS 302 is recommended. Restricted
to majors. Examine theory, research and practice on teaching and
learning in diverse classrooms. Using knowledge of educational research,
child and adolescent development, and data on students and their
communities, students analyze, design, and differentiate instruction to
engage and support all learners.
Offered Infrequent
260 Library (LIB)
LBS 310.  Early Language and Literacy.  (3 Units)  
Concepts and theories of language development and literacy from birth
through age five. Topics include language development, play, emergent
literacy, and age appropriate literature. Emphasis on urban, diverse and
inclusive preschool settings; second language learners and exceptional
learners.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 330.  Bridging Cultures Through Literacy and Learning.  (3 Units)  
Cultural dimensions of literacy and language acquisition in early years.
Strategies for supporting heritage language, teaching comprehensive
family literacy, English language development, and valuing culture in
home and school. 10 hours of fieldwork in an urban setting with English
learners.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 340.  Early Mathematical Concepts.  (3 Units)  
Practidce, principles and strategies in mathematics ages 0-5. Number
sense, classification, measurement and geometry, patterning,
mathematical reasoning; tools and manipulatives for teaching
mathematics and pre-numeracy; planning, teaching, and evaluating a
lesson. 10 hours of fieldwork in an urban preschool setting.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LBS 355.  Writing in Education.  (3 Units)  
Advanced grammar and composition for students preparing to be
elementary school teachers. Focuses on professional writing modes
and tasks for educators, including analytical educational writing,
literature reviews, case studies, classroom observations, and school
communications.
Offered Infrequent
LBS 360.  Blended Math Methods.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admittance to the Integrated Option Program. Designed
to develop students' mathematical content knowledge and pedagogical
skills necessary for the effective teaching of elementary mathematics in
the urban classroom.
Offered Infrequent
LBS 370.  Multicultural Studies.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: LBS 203. Integrated Option Only. Students will critically
analyze the experiences of diverse students in the U. S. schools by
examining the structural and pedagogical implications on students' intersectional identities. They will draw on theories about child/adolescent
development, learning, and differentiation to design instruction to
effectively teach diverse students using the principles of social justice
education. A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR
requirement for Liberal Studies majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 375.  The California Experience.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the California experience through three interrelated social
science disciplines: history, geography, and government. Specifically
focuses upon academic content which prepares students to teach the
broad range of K-8 California Content Standards.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 380.  Blended Science Methods.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admittance to the Integrated Option Program. Students
develop content knowledge and pedagogical methods .in the natural
sciences and technologies with an emphasis on astronomy, geology,
meteorology, and oceanography. Inquiry-based teaching, disciplinary
skills (including the scientific method), and interdisciplinary knowledge
(crosscutting concepts) will be explored and students will reflect on the
impact of science and technology on society.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 400.  Senior Seminar in Liberal Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: LBS 302; must have senior standing. Students will
investigate key ideas from the California Curriculum Frameworks and
Academic Content Standards. They will demonstrate competence in
each of the major multiple subject matter content areas by creating a
website portfolio, substantiating their learning each area. Students will
also demonstrate an understanding of lesson planning and complete 10
hours of observation and participation in urban school setting.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 402.  Liberal Studies Integrated Capstone.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admittance to Phase 3 of the Credential. Co-requisite:
TED 437 is required. This capstone is designed to link theory and
practice; students reflect on their learning, connecting subject matter
knowledge and teaching. Students substantiate their learning with a
philosophy of education paper, website portfolio, and an instructional
planning and teaching cycle in an elementary classroom.
Offered Fall, Spring
LBS 405.  Engineering and the Arts in the Elementary.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: LBS 400 is recommended. Restricted to majors. Must be a
senior. Students will build the theoretical background and practical skills
needed to design interdisciplinary, problem-based learning lessons with
a focus on engineering and the arts. This will include inquiry teaching,
STEAM and the K-8 Standards for Visual and Performing Arts.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
LBS 494.  Independent Studies in Liberal Studies.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and Liberal Studies Department Chair.
Independent study in a topic related to the Liberal Studies Program.
Offered Infrequent
LBS 495.  Special Topics in Liberal Studies.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and Liberal Studies Department Chair.
A course in a topic related to the Liberal Studies Program of special
interest to faculty and students for which no current course exists.
Offered As needed
LBS 496.  Special Fieldwork in Liberal Studies.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and Liberal Studies department Chair.
Fieldwork experience related to the Liberal Studies Program in settings
other than public schools. CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
Library (LIB)
LIB 150.  Library Skills and Strategies.  (2 Units)  
Designed to acquaint students with the use of academic libraries.
Practical exercises will develop skills for effectively utilizing library
resources to fulfill research needs. One hour of lecture and two hours of
activity per week.
Offered As needed
LIB 151.  Fundamentals of Information Literacy.  (3 Units)  
Explores how we seek, use, acknowledge, and transform information.
Critically examines our behaviors and the information systems embedded
in society. Focuses on psychological, sociological, and physiological
relationships to information. Topics: information privilege, publishing,
privacy, research practices, etc.
Offered Fall, Spring
LIB 494.  Independent Studies.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor. Independent study of particular
topics in the subject area under the direction of a member of the subject
department faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 261
LIB 495.  Special Topics in Library Research.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. In-depth study of information retrieval
in a particular format or discipline, e.g. government documents, on-line
databases, business resources. One hour of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
Management (MGT)
MGT 200.  Global Organizational Ethics and Social Responsibility.  (3
Units)  
Covers key issues involving ethics and social responsibility in global
organizations. The course will focus on the interdependencies between
people and their organizations. Will study historical ethical perspectives
of major Eastern, Middle Eastern, and Western philosophies.
Offered Fall, Spring
MGT 310.  Management Theory.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on the management processes of planning, organizing, leading,
and controlling; includes discussions of social and ethical issues in
business; case studies and written reports.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
MGT 312.  Organizational Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310. Causes and consequences of individual and group
behavior in business, organizational communications, interpersonal
relations, and conflict resolution; cases and role-playing.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MGT 330.  New Venture Entrepreneurship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ACC 230, MGT 310 and MKT 350 are required. Role of small
business in America; project-oriented activities include establishing,
financing, and operating independent business; designed to develop
entrepreneurial skills and insights into beginning and managing a small
startup business. This includes how to write a business plan.
Offered Fall, Spring
MGT 412.  Small Business Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: ACC 230, MGT 310 and MKT 350. Role of small business
in America; project- oriented activities include establishing, financing and
operating independent businesses; designed to develop entrepreneurial
skills and insights into managing a small business.
Offered Fall, Spring
MGT 416.  Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310 is required. An in-depth analysis of theories
and practice of leadership. Course is designed to give the student an
understanding of the leadership skills, styles, and behavior in a variety of
managerial roles.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MGT 418.  International Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310. Study of management processes such as
planning, organizing, staffing, directing and controlling under conditions
other than those found today in the United States . Countries studied vary
from year to year; case analysis and class projects. Three hour of seminar
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MGT 419.  Managing an E-Business.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310, senior status, completion of E-Commerce core
or consent of instructor. The managerial implications of conducting EBusiness. Introduces new business models and strategies used by EBusiness and their impacts on organizational culture. Group exercises,
case studies, and team projects required.
Offered Fall, Spring
MGT 430.  Strategic Communication.  (3 Units)  
Development of effective strategic communication plans, including
identification of key audiences and issues. Formulation of key
messages, tactics, timeline, budget and evaluation. Exploration of the
changing environment for business, reputation, corporate advertising,
media, internal communications, government relations, and crisis
communication.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 490.  Strategic Management Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of all business core courses; BUS 445 and
OMG 322 may be taken concurrently (priority will be given to graduating
seniors). An integrating capstone course dealing with problems of
business management; uses actual business cases for analysis and
decision-making.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MGT 491.  Bus Consulting Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior Status and completion of all business core courses.
BUS 445, FIN 480, and OMG 423 may be taken concurrently (priority
will given to graduating seniors). Business capstone courses offered
in conjunction with Small Business Administration. Student teams
participate in solution of actual business problems; field work required.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 492.  E-Commerce Practicum.  (3 Units)  
An integrating practicum course dealing with all aspects of E-Commerce
management; cases, lectures, and projects.
Offered As needed
MGT 494.  Independent Study in Mgt..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of at least two management concentration
courses and approval of the Department Chair. Independent study of
particular topics in Management under the direction of a full-time faculty
member of the Business Administration Program. CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 495.  Special Topics in Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MGT 310. Study of a current topic in Management.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MGT 496.  Internship in Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of at least two management concentration
courses and approval of the Department Chair. Under the direction of
the Internship Coordinator, students work in a business organization
applying skills and knowledge learned in the classroom. CR/NC grading.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MGT 500.  Human Behavior in Orgs.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 310. An experiential course designed to teach
management skills such as conflict resolution, motivation, leadership,
and communication, as well as the functioning of groups. Case analysis
and oral/written presentations required.
Offered Fall
MGT 503.  Adv Topics in Internatl Mgt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate Standing. Applies international management
practices and managerial behavior to decision making. Topics will include
national differences in culture, strategies for communicating, cooperating
across cultures, and managing global operations. Case analysis and oral/
written presentations required.
Offered Infrequent
262 Marital & Family Therapy (MFT)
MGT 512.  Seminar in Entrepreneurship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 500. Provides an understanding of the entrepreneur
and the entrepreneurial process. Emphasis on new venture planning and
establishment of new firms. The distinctive focus is enterprise creation.
Case studies and live discussions with small business owners and
successful entrepreneurs are featured.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 516.  Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MGT 500. Builds on knowledge of leadership provided in
the human behavior course, expands the scope and depth of knowledge
of leadership theories, provides practice in basic leadership skills, and
develops the studentÂ¿s self-knowledge of his or her preferred leadership
styles.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 526.  Leadership in the Service Industry.  (3 Units)  
This course examines the major theories and practices of leadership in
the service industry. Students will explore their own leadership abilities
and engage in skill development activities in this course.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 590.  Strategic Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Must be taken during the last semester in residence.
Strategy, leadership from middle to top management perspective.
Use of cases, readings, simulations to integrate functional fields of
business. Requires team activities, strategy formulation/implementation,
serving purpose of comprehensive project. Case analysis, oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 594.  Independent Study in Mgt..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and completion of MGT 500. Independent
study of particular topics in management under the direction of a fulltime faculty member of the Business Administration Program. CR/NC
grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MGT 595.  Special Topics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and completion of MGT 500. Intensive
study of a specialized area in management on a selected topic of
particular interest to faculty and students. Intended for students with
senior or graduate standing. Specific topic listed in class schedule.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Marital & Family Therapy (MFT)
MFT 400.  Foundations to Marital Family Therapy.  (3 Units)  
Course examines the theoretical underpinnings and fundamental
concepts to marriage and family therapy. Focus will address a breadth of
foundational information in Marital and Family Therapy in the following
areas: Research methods, theories, and psychopathology.
Offered Summer
MFT 495.  Special Topics in MFT.  (1-4 Units)  
A course designed of special interest topics. Topic of content will vary as
announced. Repeatable course
Offered As needed
MFT 496.  Internship: Practicum Training Management.  (0 Units)  
Practicum Training Management 0-unit course allows students to
prepare, collect, manage and store essential MFT experience/information
required for clinical training and proficiencies. Students will use the
program's management system to document their academic knowledge
and clinical skill in practical activities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MFT 515.  Pre-Practicum I: Therapy Skills.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: Admisstion to MFT program. Co-requisite: MFT 566,
MFT 570, MFT 576 Instructional seminar and demonstration of
supervised basic clinical skills, clinical interviewing, assessment,
and clinical intervention in the classroom. Emphasis is placed on the
therapeutic alliance, the self-of-the-therapist, and collaboration.
Offered Fall
MFT 520.  Group Therapy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 584, MFT 586. Co-requisites:
MFT 575, MFT 578, MFT 580. Course provides students with practical
instruction and seminar in theory, therapy process and the use of
empirically supported practice in group therapy. Attention is paid to group
and contextual factors including age, ability, gender, sexual orientation,
culture, and economic status.
Offered Fall
MFT 525.  Pre-Practicum II Advanced Therapy Skills.  (2 Units)  
Perquisites: MFT 515, MFT 570, MFT 566, MFT 576. Co-requisites:
MFT 572, MFT 584, MFT 586. Instructional seminar and demonstration of
supervised advanced therapy skills in the classroom and in mental health
settings with individuals, couples and families. Include assessments,
diagnosis, treatment planning, case management, safety planning,
clinical documentation, and assessment of legal and ethical issues.
Offered Spring
MFT 530.  Community Mental Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 578, MFT 580. Co-requisites:
MFT 560, MFT 565, MFT 582. Instruction, seminar and activity in
community mental health and case management skills. Emphasis
includes competencies in mental health recovery-oriented care and
resiliency in community mental health from both traditional and nontraditional MFT practices applying case management and systems of
care.
Offered Spring
MFT 541.  Practicum in MFT Fieldwork IV.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 500, MFT 520, MFT 521, MFT 530, MFT 531, MFT 570,
MFT 572, MFT 584. Fourth practicum required for program, concurrent
with field placement and training experience. 8 hours per week required.
CR/NC grading.
Offered As needed
MFT 560.  Life Span, Family Development, and Aging.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 578, MFT 580. Co-requisites:
MFT 530, MFT 565, MFT 582. Instruction in family development and
human sexuality across the lifespan; includes contextual factors (age,
ability, gender, sexual orientation, culture, race/ethnicity, gender, class,
socioeconomics). Addresses elder and dependent adults including
biopsychosocial impacts of aging, long-term care, and treatment of
abuse/neglect.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 263
MFT 565.  Assessment & Mental Health Treatment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 578, MFT 580. Co-requisites:
MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 582. A survey and supervised practice in
empirically supported assessment to treat primary mental health
conditions and common presenting problems in individuals, couples, and
families. Includes six-hours hours on suicide prevention, evidence-based
suicide risk assessments, treatments, and interventions.
Offered Spring
MFT 566.  Mental Health, Diagnosis, and Systemic Treatment.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisite: Admission to MFT program. Required Corequisites: MFT 515, MFT 570, MFT 576. Studies and analysis of human
mental health as it affects the individual, couple, and family functioning.
Development, identification, assessment, diagnosis, treatment planning,
and techniques of common any and serious mental illness will be
explored.
Offered Fall, Spring
MFT 570.  Theories and Techniques of Marital and Family Therapy I.  (3
Units)  
Required Prerequisite: Admission to MFT program. Required Co-requisite:
MFT 515, MFT 566, MFT 576. Major Marital and Family theories, research
and practice used in the treatment of individual, couples and families
from a systemic and biopsychosocial perspective.
Offered Fall
MFT 572.  Theories and Techniques of Marital Family Therapy II.  (3
Units)  
Required Prerequisites: MFT 515, MFT 566, MFT 570, MFT 576. Required
Co-requisites: MFT 525, MFT 584, MFT 586. A continuation of the major
MFT theories, this course includes postmodern and evidence-based
practices and techniques in marriage and family counseling applied to
treatment of individual, couples and family.
Offered Spring
MFT 574.  Human Sexual Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Advanced study of the psychological, physiological, and sociological
aspects of human sexual behavior, with attention to the origin
and treatment of sexual dysfunction in its environmental context.
Examinations and/or papers used in evaluation.
Offered As needed
MFT 575.  Relational Therapy: Treatment of Couples and Partners.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 584, MFT 586. Co-requisites:
MFT 520, MFT 580, MFT 578. Instruction in treatment and assessment
strategies necessary to treat couple/partner problem or sexual issues in
conjoint therapy. Addresses issues related to age, ability, gender, sexual
orientation, culture, race/ethnicity, socioeconomics, and spousal or
partner dynamics associated with abuse assessments and interventions.
Offered Fall
MFT 576.  Human Communication, Theory, and Skill.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: Admission to MFT program. Co-requisites: MFT 515,
MFT 566, MFT 570. Instruction in the purposes, theory, and skills of
communication applied to intrapersonal and interpersonal experience.
The course addresses personal awareness, self-of-the-therapist, bias, and
stereotyping to promote equity and diversity in clinical treatment.
Offered As needed
MFT 578.  Treatment Approaches with Children and Adolescents.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 584, MFT 586. Co-requisites:
MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 580. Treatment focuses on diagnostic and
treatment needs of children and adolescents from a systemic perspective
to include familial and sociocultural considerations. Emphasis is placed
on empirically supported and evidence-based treatment modalities.
Includes seven-clock hours on child abuse assessment and reporting.
Offered Fall
MFT 580.  Sociocultural Diversity & Marginalized Communities.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 584, MFT 586. Co-requisite:
MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 578. Diversity factors (age, ability, gender, sexual
orientation, culture, race/ethnicity, religion, spirituality, socioeconomics,)
affecting human behavior in family and the larger community situated in
complex societies. Additional emphasis is placed on clinical competency
with diverse, marginalized and under-served populations in California.
Offered Fall
MFT 582.  Psychopharmacology and Mental Health Treatment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MFT 520, MFT 575, MFT 578, MFT 580. Co-requisite:
MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 565. The impact of psychotropic medications
on the behavioral and emotional states of individuals and on their
relationships is addressed. Emphasis is placed on the development of
vocabulary, basic knowledge of medications, how to assess effects and
consultation/collaboration with prescribing physicians.
Offered Spring
MFT 583.  Research Methods in Marital Family Therapy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 565, MFT 582. Co-requisites:
MFT 585, MFT 588, MFT 589. Emphasis will focus developing
competencies in critical analysis and evaluation of published research,
examining evidence-based research to improve practice, and conducting
independent research. Generating hypothesis, research design, data
collection, interpretation and utilization of findings in clinical practice will
be summarized.
Offered Spring
MFT 584.  Law, Ethics, and Professional Practices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 515, MFT 566, MFT 570, MFT 576. Co-requisites:
MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 586. Current legal and ethical professional
issues in marital and family therapy. Examination and application of BBS
and AAMFT ethics and legal responsibilities.
Offered Fall
MFT 585.  Treatment of Substance Use, Addiction, and Dependence.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites:MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 565, MFT 582. Co-requisites:
MFT 583, MFT 588, MFT 589. Studies of the theories of substance
use as they effect and relate to the family system. Explore advanced
interviewing techniques, assessment procedures, recovery and relapse
prevention, and implementation of evidence-based treatment modalities
in family therapy.
Offered Fall
MFT 586.  Current Issues in Marital Family Therapy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 515,MFT 566, MFT 570, MFT 576. Co-requisites:
MFT 525, MFT 572, MFT 584. Current and emerging issues in the field of
MFT relevant to advancements in practice and influences on family, local
and larger global community. Emphasis in contextual factors such as an
economic status, culture, gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, and
ability.
Offered Spring
264 Marketing (MKT)
MFT 588.  Treatment of Trauma with Individuals, Couples, and
Families.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 565, MFT 582. Co-requisite:
MFT 583, MFT 585, MFT 589. Treatment of trauma with individuals,
couples, and family. Beginning and advanced techniques in assessment,
diagnosis, treatment, and crisis intervention of child and elder abuse,
domestic violence, rape, disaster, crime, and other trauma will be
explored.
Offered Fall
MFT 589.  Advanced Therapeutic Approaches and Application.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: MFT 530, MFT 560, MFT 565, MFT 582. Co-requisites:
MFT 583, MFT 585, MFT 588. An inclusive survey of major theoretical
approaches, integrative psychotherapies, evidenced-based practice,
research, legal and ethical issues applied to individuals, couples and
families. Case conceptualization, diagnosis, assessment, treatment
planning and interventions are demonstrated utilizing vignettes, role play,
and video demonstration.
Offered Spring
MFT 590.  Career Development, Theory, and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Emphasis will focus on career development throughout life, to include
theory, techniques and counseling practice. The interrelationship among
social relationships, diversity including gender, culture, ethnicity, social
class, sexual orientation, ability, and other factors, workplace, and career
development will be examined.
Offered As needed
MFT 594.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor and Program Coordinator.
Student must have completed at least twelve semester units. In
consultation with a faculty member, the student will investigate in detail
current research and scholarship in some area relevant to the field of
Marital Family Therapy, or will complete a project involving original and
creative research. Content of research will be specific to the program and
licensure as an MFT.
Offered As needed
MFT 595.  Special Topics in MFT.  (1-3 Units)  
A course designed of special interest topics. Topic of content will vary as
announced. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MFT 596.  Practicum: Marital Family Therapy Traineeship.  (3 Units)  
A multi-semester course that includes fieldwork training, on-site
supervision and classroom participation. Traineeship occurs over a
minimum of 12 months totaling a minimum of six semester units required
for graduation.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MFT 597.  Directed Reading MFT Comp Prep.  (3 Units)  
In consultation with the faculty member, completion of readings to
prepare for the comprehensive exam. The course is limited to students
who have completed one year of courses. CR/NC grading. Course is
repeatable for a total of 6 units.
Offered As needed
MFT 599.  Comprehensive Examination.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: All Required Courses must be completed excluding
Practicum: MFT Traineeship. Registration in MFT 599, Comprehensive
Examination is limited to students who have advanced to candidacy
and completed all degree coursework requirements with a grade of a
B or better and a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0. Registration in the
course is required to complete the comprehensive examination. The
examination evaluates content that includes theories, assessment,
diagnosis, treatment, crisis intervention, and law and ethics and requires
evidence of application of theory, practice, and research.
Offered Spring
MFT 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered As needed
Marketing (MKT)
MKT 350.  Principles Of Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ECO 210 recommended. Survey of the marketing function,
including the marketing environment and target markets; marketing
strategy with emphasis on the marketing mix; social and ethical
responsibilities of marketing.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 351.  Sales Mgt & Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Organizing, motivating and controlling the
activities of the sales force. Developing the knowledge and skills of
professional selling useful for accomplishing career objectives; cases
and role playing required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 352.  Advertising and Promotion MGT..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Management and coordination of advertising,
marketing public relations, and sales promotion; case analysis and
presentations.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 353.  Retail Mktg Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Selecting store location, layout, merchandise
goods, assortments, and selling to target market, including sales growth
through direct marketing, franchising and acquisition; cases and field
research required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 355.  Consumer Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350 (may be taken concurrently). Consumer buying
patterns, motivation, and search behavior; consumer decision-making
process; interdisciplinary concepts from economics, sociology,
psychology, cultural anthropology, and mass communications; case
analysis and research projects.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 358.  International Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Analysis of international marketing problems
including economic, social, cultural, technological, political, geographic
and competitive forces; cases and projects.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 265
MKT 445.  New Product Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Focuses on product/service decisions and
development processes. Covers the role of new products in marketing
and corporate management, along with product policy concepts -
product life cycle and product positioning. Case analysis, oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 450.  Internet Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MKT 350. The principal focus of this course will be
on understanding the marketing implications on internet marketing.
Students will learn how internet marketing differs from traditional
marketing and determine the role of marketing functions in internet
programs; cases and projects.
Offered Fall, Spring
MKT 451.  Trade Show and Event Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. How to create and manage trade shows, exhibits,
and events successfully. Students will learn how to organize, plan,
strategize, execute, and measure trade shows and events. Focuses on
how to improve marketing productivity and effectiveness.
Offered Fall, Spring
MKT 452.  Sports & Entertainment Mkt..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MKT 350. Theory and practice of the strategic marketing
processes applied to sports and entertainment enterprises; planning
marketing mixes; market selection decisions; distribution strategies;
media mergers and acquisitions; cross platform marketing; regulation
issues; sponsorships and events; readings and case studies.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MKT 454.  Marketing Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MKT 350 and OMG 321. The marketing research process
with an emphasis on cost versus value of information for decisionmaking: problem formulation, research design, sources of research data,
measurement techniques and data collection, sampling techniques, data
analysis, interpretation, and reporting; term research projects.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MKT 459.  Sem In Marketing Mgmt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Prior completion of at least four courses from the
Marketing concentration;Â MKT 355, MKT 454, FIN 360 and OMG 322
are recommended. Comprehensive analysis of marketing management
problems, functions, and the decision-making process; emphasis on the
case method as related to problems of product, price, distribution and
promotion.
Offered Fall, Spring
MKT 494.  Independent Study in Mkt..  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of at least two marketing concentration courses
and approval of the Department of Marketing Chair. Independent study
of particular topics in Marketing under the direction of a full-time faculty
member of the Marketing Department. CR/NC grading. Repeatable
course.
Offered As needed
MKT 495.  Special Topics in Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Study of a current topic in Marketing. Repeatable
course.
Offered As needed
MKT 496.  Internship in Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of at least two marketing concentration courses
and approval of the Department of Marketing Chair. Under the direction
of the Internship Coordinator, students work in a business organization
applying skills and knowledge learned in the classroom. CR/NC grading.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MKT 500.  Marketing Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 350. Current topics in strategic marketing: strategic
planning, market resource allocation, buying behavior, forecasting,
product positioning. Social, legal, ethical and global issues in marketing
will be explored. Case analysis oral/written presentations and computer
usage required.
Offered Fall
MKT 501.  Marketing Information Mgt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 500. Learn important tools and databases needed by
marketers for decision-making. The course explores the applications
of marketing information as a competitive tool. Also covers marketing
research tools and processes. Case analysis, oral/written presentation
and computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 503.  Intrnatl Mktg:Cases/Cur Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 500. Current topics in international marketing. Topics
include strategic planning, global environmental variables, marketing
research in international markets, export and import process and
negotiations.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 510.  Business-to-Busingess Mkt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Focuses on the
strategies used for marketing products and services to commercial,
institutional, and governmental markets. Case analysis, oral/written
presentation and computer usage required.
Offered As needed
MKT 512.  Seminar in Services Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Examines the marketing
and managerial implications of the differences between goods and
services. Covers many service marketing concepts, including the
relationship between the service provider and customer, the real-time
process experience of services, customer satisfaction and service quality.
Offered As needed
MKT 530.  Negotiation and Presentations.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Introduces students
to the best principles used in marketing negotiations. Students will
understand characteristics of a good negotiator; critical elements in
negotiations, strategies and tactics used for and against. Also includes
improving communication through personal presentation.
Offered As needed
MKT 531.  Sales Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Discusses the strategic
and tactical aspects of sales force management. Appropriate for
students interested in careers in sales management or management
positions in companies whose revenues and profits depend on a
productive sales force.
Offered As needed
266 Masters in Social Work (MSW)
MKT 545.  New Product Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Focuses on product/
service decisions and development processes. Covers the role of new
products in marketing and corporate management, along with product
policy concepts - product life cycle and product positioning. Case
analysis, oral/written presentation and computer usage required.
Offered As needed
MKT 550.  Internet Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 or concurrent enrollment. Focuses on the
marketing functions as they pertain to Internet Marketing, including
the Internet marketing environment and target markets; marketing
strategy with an emphasis on the marketing mix; social and ethical
responsibilities. Case analysis, oral/written presentation and computer
usage required.
Offered As needed
MKT 555.  Seminar in Consumer Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 501 may be taken concurrently. Focuses on managerial
concerns related to the understanding of consumer buying patterns,
motivations, and search behavior; consumer-decision making process;
interdisciplinary concepts from economics, sociology, psychology,
cultural anthropology, and mass communication.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 560.  Brand Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MKT 500.The course explores the field of brand
management through the use of case studies of leading marketers and
their strategies for effectively building and managing brands. Topics
include brand building, positioning, measuring, and managing brand
equity.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 580.  Strategic Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MKT 501 and three marketing electives; one marketing
elective may be taken concurrently. Provides a comprehensive framework
for the application of marketing concepts to the development and
implementation of marketing strategy. Emphasizes the development
of an effective marketing plan. Competitive computer simulation, case
analysis, oral/written presentation and computer usage required.
Offered As needed
MKT 594.  Independent Study in Mkt..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and completion of MKT 500. Independent
study of particular topics in Marketing under the direction of a full-time
faculty member of the Business Administration Program. CR/NC grading.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 595.  Special Topics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and completion of MKT 500. Intensive
study of a specialized area in marketing on a selected topic of particular
interest to faculty and students. Intended for students with a senior or
graduate standing. Specific topic listed in class schedule. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
MKT 596.  Internship in Marketing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and completion of MKT 500. Under
the direction of the Internship Coordinator, students work in a business
organization applying skills and knowledge learned in the classroom. CR/
NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Masters in Social Work (MSW)
MSW 500.  Human Behavior and the Social Environment I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 523, and MSW 540. Focus
on individual and family life span. Examine individual and family
development in the context of social, political, historical, and cultural
variables. Individual and family behavior is examined for its unique
expressions of strength and abilities in the course of achieving
psychosocial, cognitive, moral, and spiritual developmental tasks.
Offered Fall
MSW 501.  Human Behavior and Social Environment II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 523, and MSW 540.
Co-requisites: MSW 511, MSW 521, MSW 530, and MSW 541. HBSE II,
the second of two companion courses, examines the interrelationships
among social institutions, social structure and social processes, on the
one hand, and the realities of the lives of individuals, families, groups,
communities, organizations and societies, on the other.
Offered Spring
MSW 510.  Social Welfare Policy I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: MSW 500, MSW 520, MSW 523 and MSW 540. The
structure, functions and components of US social welfare policy are
identified and critically analyzed to reveal its scope, reach and limitations;
current and historically successful approaches and tools to improve
policies, increase social justice and reduce inequalities are reviewed.
Offered Fall
MSW 511.  Social Welfare Policy II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 523 and MSW 540.
Co-requisites: MSW 510, MSW 511, MSW 530 and MSW 541. Preparation
to engage in policy practices advancing social and economic wellbeing of individuals, families, organizations and administrative and legal
aspects of policy provisions and advancing social justice.
Offered Spring, Summer
MSW 520.  Generalist Social Work Practice I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 523, and MSW 540. Focuses
on theories, models, and interventions of generalist social work practice
when working with individuals and families. Emphasis is placed on
effective and equitable multicultural and contextual service delivery and
interventions with poor, vulnerable and oppressed populations.
Offered Fall
MSW 521.  Generalist Social Work Practice II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 523, and MSW 540.
Co-requisites: MSW 501, MSW 511, MSW 530, and MSW 541. Focuses
on theories, models and principles for generic social work practice
with groups, communities and organizations. Emphasis is placed on
effective and equitable multicultural and contextual service directory and
interventions with poor, vulnerable and oppressed populations.
Offered Spring
MSW 522.  Clinical Interventions with Youth, Children and Families in
Social Work.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 501, MSW 510, MSW 511, MSW 520,
MSW 521, MSW 530, MSW 540 and MSW 541 are required. Examines
theories, principles and practices of family counseling, the life cycle
and role of counselor in promoting change in families, utilizing CRT and
Intersectionality. Ethical, legal and other professional issues related to
family counseling will be covered. Restricted to Majors.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 267
MSW 523.  Social Justice in Social Work Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 530 and MSW 540.
Co-requisites: MSW 501, MSW 511, MSW 521 and MSW 541. Examines
the history and consequences of different definitions of social justice.
Social justice within human rights, culture, values, and ethics will be
explored including related theory, social policy and movements and
development of effective strategies promoting social justice.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSW 524.  Critical Race Studies in Social Work Practice.  (3 Units)  
In-depth overview of Critical Race studies (CRS) in social work fields.
Examination of the causes and symptoms of structural racism and
social/racial hierarchies in underserved communities. Analysis of
the history and development of CRS' application to practice issues.
Restricted to MSW Program.
Offered Fall
MSW 530.  Social Welfare Research.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520 and MSW 540. Critical
assessment and mastery of research methodologies to systematically
evaluate one's own social work practices, focusing on those used to
evaluate published research studies, assess service and program delivery,
and participate in conducting research as a professional social worker.
Offered Fall
MSW 531.  Advanced Research.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 501, MSW 510, MSW 511,
MSW 520, MSW 521, MSW 524, MSW 530, MSW 540, MSW 541.
Community-based participatory action (CPAR) research skills and
knowledge are acquired and applied to a topic relevant to a social work
organization to generate a collaborative research proposal with a client
participation component.
Offered Fall
MSW 540.  Fieldwork Practicum I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, and MSW 523. Supervised
agency experience designed to develop generalist practice skills
in working with individuals, families, groups and communities with
emphasis on cross cultural practice. Two hours weekly seminar and 16
hours in agency placement. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall
MSW 541.  Fieldwork Practicum II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 523, and MSW 540.
Co-requisites: MSW 501, MSW 511, MSW 521, and MSW 530. Supervised
agency experience designed to apply the knowledge, skills and values
learned in MSW 520 and MSW 521 and activities of MSW 540. Two hours
of seminar and 16 hours in agency placement. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSW 550.  Advanced Social Work Practice in Communities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of foundation year courses. Corequisite:
MSW 570 and MSW 581. This course provides in depth overview of Social
Work from a Community Practice perspective. It highlights contextual
models of practice with communities as well as developmental,
organizing, and planning approaches that are applicable to diverse
populations. It will examine skills used by social workers to conduct
culturally competent interventions.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSW 551.  Social Policy III: Community Capacity Building.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Advanced year status and declaration of Community
Capacity Building as specialization. Corequisite: MSW 570. Community
Capacity Building's growing influence on social policies and
achievements improving the well-being of individuals and families in poor
urban neighborhoods are described and analyzed to prepare professional
social workers to advance social, economic and environmental justice.
Offered Spring
MSW 553.  Multicultural Perspectives of Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of foundation year courses. Corequisite:
MSW 570. Theory and practice with ethnically, racially, religiously diverse
populations utilizing a multidimensional, cross-cultural framework and
case materials to analyze treatment issues and empowerment strategies.
Offered Fall
MSW 555.  Advanced Practice in Administration and Leadership.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 510, MSW 520, MSW 521, MSW 550, MSW 540,
MSW 541, MSW 550, MSW 570. Corequisite: MSW 571. Introduces
the concepts and theories involved in leadership, administration and
management of a human services organization. Leadership styles will
be examined, paying close attention to those who recognize diverse
cultural styles and incorporate contextually competent approaches to
administration.
Offered Spring
MSW 560.  Social Welfare Policy III: Children, Youth and Families.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to Candidacy and completion of foundation
year courses. Co-requisites: MSW 550, MSW 553, MSW 570 and
MSW 598. Provides students with an advanced understanding of key
issues, concepts and of key issues, concepts and skills associated with
policy analysis and development of policy alternatives and political action
on behalf of children, youth and families.
Offered Spring
MSW 561.  Social Welfare Policy III: Community Health/Mental
Health.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to Candidacy and completion of foundation
year courses. Co-requisites: MSW 550, MSW 553, MSW 570 and
MSW 598. Community mental health policies, programs, services and
initiatives identified and critically assessed for quality, utilization, social
justice considerations, and social work impact, using specialized policy
analyses, professional activities and political actions focusing on
populations-at-risk within and across affiliated organizations.
Offered Spring
MSW 570.  Fieldwork Practicum III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of foundation year courses. Co-requisites:
MSW 550 or MSW 551. Continued supervised agency experience at an
advanced level in both direct and administrative program development
areas within the student's area of concentration, with an emphasis on
cross-cultural practice. One hour weekly seminar and 20 hours in agency
placement. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall
268 Mathematics (MAT)
MSW 571.  Fieldwork Practicum IV.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of foundation year courses and MSW 550 or
MSW 551, MSW 553, MSW 570, and MSW 598. Corequisite: MSW 555.
Continued supervised agency experience at an advanced level in
both direct and administrative program development areas within the
student's area of concentration, with an emphasis on cross-cultural
practice. One hour weekly seminar and 20 hours in agency placement.
CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSW 574.  Seminar in Health Care and Gerontology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 501, MSW 510, MSW 511, MSW 520,
MSW 521, MSW 524, MSW 530, MSW 540, and MSW 541 are required.
Examines advanced social work practice in health care settings with
persons of varying ages and advanced social work practice with older
adults.
Offered Spring
MSW 575.  Grant Research and Proposal Writing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 501, MSW 510, MSW 511, MSW 520,
MSW 521, MSW 524, MSW 530, MSW 540, and MSW 541 are required.
Provides students with the knowledge and skills necessary to develop
the fundamental components of a grant proposal to include needs
assessment, program planning and development, abstract, background
and significance, goals and objectives, project design and methods,
evaluation, sustainability, outreach/marketing plan, budget and
justification. Students will develop skills in researching and locating
private and public funding opportunities.
Offered Spring
MSW 576.  Youth Empowerment or Community Change.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSW 500, MSW 501, MSW 510, MSW 511, MSW 520,
MSW 521, MSW 540, and MSW 541 are required. Examines strategies
or engaging and empowering young people, with an emphasis on
approaches in urban, racially segregated, and economically disinvested
areas. Draws upon best practices from grassroots organizing, civic
engagement, youth development, and child welfare.
Offered Spring
MSW 580.  Child Welfare Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to candidacy. Identifies and critically analyzes
a broad range of welfare issues related to children, youth and families,
such as child maltreatment, poverty, race, gender, sexual orientation, and
gang violence, focusing on contributing factors, recent research, policies
and treatment modalities.
Offered Fall
MSW 581.  Seminar in Community Capacity Building.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advanced year status and declaration of Community
Capacity Building as Specialization. Co-requisites: MSW 550 and
MSW 570. Focus is on the collaboration, assessment, implantation
and evaluations of various strategies utilized to build capacity
within communities. Students will apply the tenets of Asset and
Social development to support/aid in the development of families,
neighborhoods and communities.
Offered Fall
MSW 582.  Seminar in MH Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to candidacy. Examines mental health from
a community perspective. Cast in the context of the recovery model,
theoretical perspectives examine assessment, treatment planning and
approached to recovery and wellness. Critical Race Theory, cultural
implications and outcomes will be examined.
Offered Fall
MSW 590.  Graduate Seminar in Integrative Learning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of all foundation-level MSW courses including
Foundation Year field practicum. Students integrate mastery across
course work and showcases key learning experiences and social work
competencies. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSW 592.  Diagnostic Assessment in Social Work Practice.  (3 Units)  
Restricted to majors. Overview of assessment for contextually and
culturally competent social work practice using the DSM 5. A principle
goal is to address, from a social justice standpoint, issues of social
hierarchies and power in the use of diagnosis of mental health disorders.
Offered Summer
MSW 594.  Independent Study in Social Work.  (3 Units)  
Independent pursuit of a topic or project which is proposed by the
student. Study must be interdisciplinary and must be approved, in
advance, by faculty member supervising study. Repeatable course. Nonrepeatable.
Offered As needed
MSW 595.  Special Topics in Social Work.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced course of special interest for Social Work graduate students.
Topic and content will vary as announced.
Offered As needed
MSW 598.  Directed Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to candidacy and consent of program
coordinator. Co-requisites: MSW 551 or MSW 551, MSW 553, MSW 560
or MSW 561, and MSW 570. Extensive research on a subject related
to the student's area of concentration under the guidance of a faculty
member. Designed to prepare students for the Project, Thesis or their
Comprehensive Examination. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall
MSW 599.  Social Work Thesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of all foundation-level MSW courses, including
Foundation Year field practicum. Thesis option requires the student to
design, implement, analyze and write up a formal research paper about
an investigation into a topic relevant to the social work profession, which
includes flexibility in terms of creativity and methodology. CR/NC grading
Offered Spring
MSW 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Students who have completed their course work but not their directed
project may maintain continuous enrollment by registering for this course
with permission of the program coordinator.
Offered Infrequent
Mathematics (MAT)
MAT 100.  Calculus Success Academy.  (2 Units)  
Preparation for MAT 103, MAT 153, and MAT 191. Students will
strengthen their problem solving and algebra skills while working
collaboratively on math problems arising from various STEM disciplines.
For students majoring in Biochemistry, Chemistry, Computer Science,
Mathematics and Physics.
Offered All terms, Spring, Summer
MAT 102.  Foundations of Statistics.  (3 Units)  
Preparation for MAT 105 or MAT 132. Fundamental mathematical and
statistical reasoning, including linear functions, measures of center and
spread, representative of data, interpreting graphs, counting methods.
Not intended for science and math majors that require MAT 153 or higher.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 269
MAT 103.  Introduction to College Algebra.  (4 Units)  
Preparation for MAT 151 College Algebra. Graphic, numeric, analytic
and applied perspectives on algebraic concepts of linear and nonlinear
functions, linear programming, exponents, radicals, exponential functions
and transformation of functions. Intended for science and math majors.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring, Summer
MAT 105.  Finite Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153, or MAT 191.
Mathematics of finance, combinatorics, probability, statistical measures
of central tendency and dispersion, problem solving and mathematical
reasoning, and additional topical selected by instructor e.g. linear
programming, statistics, graph theory, game theory. A-C-/NC grading.
Satisfies the General Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 107.  Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers: Real
Numbers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153,
or MAT 191.Sets and set theoretic operations as related to counting
numbers and rational numbers and arithmetic operations. Real number
system and its origins, development, structure and use. Special emphasis
on problem solving, and the development and application of algorithms.
Does not satisfy General Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MAT 111.  Discovering Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Problem solving and applications of mathematics to personal and civic
life involving chance and descriptive statistics and selected additional
topics. Includes use of spreadsheets and other technologies. Not
intended for majors that require statistics or calculus.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 131.  Elementary Statistics and Probability.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 105, MAT 151, MAT 153, or MAT 191. A practical course
in probability and statistics including such topics as the binomial and
normal distributions, confidence intervals, t, F, and chi-square tests, linear
regression and correlation, and conditional probability. Satisfies the
General Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 132.  Statistics and Probability with Support.  (4 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: MAT 102 or GE Math Ready with Support
(Level III) Includes the binomial and normal distributions, confidence
intervals, linear regression and correlation, and conditional probability.
Satisfies General Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 134.  Statistics & Probability - Supported.  (4 Units)  
MAT 134 is an introduction to statistics, including the binomial and
normal distributions, confidence intervals, linear regressions and
correlation, hypothesis testing, and conditional probability. Satisfies
General Education Quantitative Reasoning. Not for students with credit
for MAT 131 or MAT 132. Recommended for students designated "GE
Ready with Support (Level III)."
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 141.  Computers for Mathematics Teaching.  (3 Units)  
Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion of any of
MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153, or MAT 191.
Introduction to computers for teachers of mathematics. Topics include
flowcharting, programming in LOGO on microcomputers. Applications of
computers to problem solving, statistics, and other areas of mathematics
relevant to teachers of mathematics. Applications packages, CAI and
social issues are studied. A-C/NC grading. Does not satisfy General
Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 143.  Problem Solving in Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: be Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153, or
MAT 191. Objective is to increase students abilities to use knowledge
and experience when encountering new and unexpected situations.
Develop higher level thinking skills, learn to formulate, analyze, and model
problems. Choosing relevant information, making conjectures, devising
plans and testing solutions. A-C/NC grading. Does not satisfy General
Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 151.  College Algebra and Trigonometry.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 103 is required. Graphic, numeric, analytic and
applied perspectives on topics including linear, quadratic, exponential,
logarithmic and trigonometric functions, exponents and radicals, linear
and nonlinear systems of equations and inequalities. Preparation for
MAT 191: Calculus I. 3 units of discussion; 1 unit lab.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
MAT 153.  Pre-Calculus with Trigonometry with Lab.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites:Math Placement Category Level 2 or completed GE
Quantitative Reasoning. Topics include functions and their graphs; linear,
quadratic, rational, exponential, and logarithmic functions; composition,
transformation and arithmetic of functions; inverse function; inequalities;
right-triangle trigonometry and circular motion; applications to contextual
problems. This course is supported with Supplemental Instruction.
Preparation for MAT 191: Calculus.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 155.  Pre-Calculus.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): Designation of "GE Ready (Level II)" or with permission
of department. Topics include functions and their graphs; linear,
quadratic, rational, exponential, and logarithmic functions; composition,
transformation, and arithmetic of functions; inverse function; inequalities;
right-triangle trigonometry and circular motion; applications to contextual
problems. Preparation for MAT 191 Calculus.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 171.  Survey of Calculus for Management and Life Sciences.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisite: Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153, or
MAT 191. Not available for credit to students who have credit in MAT 191
or its equivalent or courses which have MAT 191 as a prerequisite.
Functions, linear equations, the derivative and its applications, the
integral and its applications, and partial derivatives. Satisfies the General
Education Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
270 Mathematics (MAT)
MAT 191.  Calculus I.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 151 or MAT 153 or equivalent with a grade of C or
better. Limits, continuity, derivatives, differentiation formulas, applications
of derivatives, introduction to integration, fundamental theorem of
calculus, application of integration. Satisfies the General Education
Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 193.  Calculus II.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 191 or equivalent with a grade of C or better.
Differentiation and integration of transcendental function. Techniques
and applications of integration. Polar coordinates. Infinite sequences
and series, power series, convergence. Satisfies the General Education
Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 195.  Selected Topics in Mathematics.  (1-5 Units)  
A course in a topic of special interest to both faculty and students for
which no current course exists. Topic will be announced in schedule of
classes. Repeatable for credit. One to four hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed, All terms
MAT 207.  Mathematics for Elementary School Teachers: Geometry &
Statistics.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Quantitative Reasoning Placement Level 2 or completion
of any of MAT 105, MAT 131, MAT 132, MAT 134, MAT 151, MAT 153,
or MAT 191. Primarily for prospective elementary school teachers.
Geometry from an intuitive problem solving standpoint. Constructions,
symmetry, translations, rotations, patterns, area, volume, and the metric
system. Topics from graph theory and topology. Two hours of lecture
and two hours of activity per week. Does not satisfy General Education
Quantitative Reasoning Requirement.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 211.  Calculus III.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 or equivalent with a grade of C or better.
Multivariable calculus: analytic geometry, scalar and vector products,
partial differentiation, multiple integration, change of coordinates,
gradient, optimization, line integrals, Green's theorem, elements of vector
calculus.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 213.  Calculus IV.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 211 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Topics
covered include vector calculus, line and surface integrals, and the
theorems of Green, Gauss, and Stokes.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 241.  Programming and Technology for Teaching Secondary School
Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 or equivalent with a grade of C or better.
Introduction to application software appropriate for the teaching of
secondary school mathematics. The programs include spreadsheet,
geometric modeling, and statistics modeling. Writing simple programs for
graphing calculators to demonstrate and solve mathematical problems.
Offered Fall
MAT 247.  Elements of Linear Alegbra.  (3 Units)  
Matrix algebra emphasizing small (2x2 and 3x3) matrices and vectors
over the real numbers, solutions of systems of equations, determinants,
inner product spaces, and linear transformations, with applications to
other subjects, e.g. physical and computer science, economics, and
operations research.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 271.  Foundations Of Higher Math.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 with grade of C or better. Topics include logic,
methods of mathematical proof, set theory, relations and functions.
Introduction to complex numbers and proof strategies using ideas of
vector algebra. Meant to prepare students for mathematics program as
well as concepts of computer science.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 281.  Discrete Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: a) MAT 151 or MAT 153 and b) CSC 115 or CSC 121 or
MAT 241 or equivalent with grade of C or better. Matrix algebra, graph
theory, trees, combinatorics, Boolean algebra; with applications to
computers and computer programming.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 295.  Selected Topics In Mathematics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 193 and consent of instructor. A course in a topic of
special interest to both faculty and students for which no current course
exists. Topic will be announced in schedule of classes. Repeatable for
credit. One to four hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
MAT 297.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 193, consent of instructor and consent of department
chair. A reading program of selected topics not covered by regularly
offered courses conducted under the supervision of a faculty member.
Offered As needed
MAT 307.  Foundations of Middle School Mathematics I.  (3 Units)  
Foundations of Mathematics related to the middle school curriculum.
Course 1 includes the following topics: Reasoning with numbers, basic
number proofs, understanding exponents, proportional reasoning,
rates, linear functions, method of finite differences, and the theory and
application of theses topics.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
MAT 308.  Foundations of Middle School Mathematics II.  (3 Units)  
Foundations of Mathematics related to the middle school curriculum.
Course 2 includes the following topics: basic Eeuclidean facts, algebrageometry connections, volume and surface area formulas, similarity,
congruence, and scale factors, and the theory and application underlying
these topics.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 309.  Foundations of Middle School Mathematics III.  (3 Units)  
Foundations of Mathematics related to the middle school curriculum.
Course 3 includes the following topics: concept of functions, inverse
functions, properties of rational, trigonometric and exponential functions
and fundamental concepts in Calculus.
Offered All terms, Infrequent
MAT 311.  Differential Equations.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 211 and MAT 271 with a grades of C or better. Topics
covered include first and second order linear equations including
existence and uniqueness theorems, series solutions; nonlinear
equations; systems of linear equations. Other topics may include the
Laplace transform, qualitative theory.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 271
MAT 315.  Introduction to Survival Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 115 or MAT 241; MAT 193, MAT 131 or MAT 132
are required. Co-requisites: MAT 323 and MAT 327 are recommended.
Survival analysis is about the analysis of time-to-event data. This course
will help you understand the fundamental concepts of survival analysis.
Topics include, but are not limited to, time-to-event data, Log-rank test
and Cox proportional hazards regression.
Offered Fall
MAT 321.  Probability and Statistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 and MAT 271 or equivalent with grade C or
better. A calculus based survey of topics in probability and statistics
emphasizing applications.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 323.  Statistical Inference.  (3 Units)  
Point and interval estimation, hypothesis testing, simple linear regression,
re-sampling. Method of moments, maximum likelihood, bias and variance,
mean-squared error, sufficiency, likelihood ratio tests, p-value, power
calculation, analysis of variance, Neymann-Pearson lemma, uniformly
most powerful tests.
Offered Fall
MAT 327.  Introduction to Machine Learning with Software.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisites: MAT 281.Recommended Prerequisite: MAT 131
Machine learning uses methods and concepts to sift through data to
create automated prediction and decision programs. This course will
develop the underlying mathematical concepts and proficiency with R or
similar software to understand, build, and apply machine learning.
Offered Spring
MAT 331.  Linear Algebra.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 247 and MAT 271 or equivalent with a grade of C or
better. Linear equations, vector spaces, matrices, linear transformations,
determinants, eigenvalues, eigenvectors, etc.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 333.  Abstract Algebra.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 271 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. The
theory of groups, rings, ideals, integral domains, fields and related results.
Offered Fall
MAT 337.  Mathematical Logic.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 191 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Topics
covered include propositional calculus, classical and intuitionistic;
completeness and consistency theorems; first order predicate calculus
with equality; axiomatic arithmetic; Godel's incompleteness theorem.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 347.  Modern Geometry.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 271 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Topics in
synthetic and analytic geometry; transformations, similarity, congruence,
distance, angles, constructions; introduction to projective and/or nonEuclidean geometry.
Offered Spring
MAT 351.  Probability Theory.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 or equivalent with a grade of C or better.
Probability as a mathematical system, set theory, conditional probability
and independent events, random variables, distribution and density
functions, covariance and correlation, limit theorems, convolutions,
computer generation of random numbers.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 353.  Stochastic Processes.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 351 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. A
selection from among several topics, including Markov chains; Markov
processes; queuing, branching, Poisson, and Gaussian processes;
stationary processes.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 361.  Finite Automata.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 281 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Study
of the abstract formalization of digital computers. Applications to
computation theory and formal linguistics.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 367.  Numerical Analysis I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Experience in BASIC, FORTRAN or Pascal and MAT 211
or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Approximation of roots of
functions, interpolation formulas, numerical solutions of systems of
equations, numerical differentiation and integration, numerical solutions
to ordinary differential equations.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 369.  Numerical Analysis II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 367 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. A
continuation of MAT 367, including approximation of eigenvalues and
eigenvectors, approximation by splines, numerical solutions of parabolic,
elliptic, and hyperbolic partial differential equations.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 395.  Selected Topics in Math.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211 and consent of instructor. A course in a topic of
special interest to both faculty and students for which no current course
exists. Topic will be announced in schedule of classes. Repeatable for
credit. One to four hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
MAT 396.  Practicum in Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent on Department Chair or Instructor is required.
Supervised work experience, emphasizing hands-on training and
application of practical and/or technical skills in mathematics, in a
suitable setting. Students will submit a comprehensive report or portfolio.
CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MAT 398S.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
MAT 401.  Advanced Analysis I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211 and MAT 271, or equivalent with a grade of C or
better. Elements of set theory, numerical sequences and series, continuity
and differentiability of functions of one and several variables.
Offered Fall
MAT 403.  Advanced Analysis II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 401 or equivalent with a grade of C or better.
Integration of functions of one and several variables, sequences and
series of functions, uniform convergence, power series, differentiation of
functions of several variables.
Offered Spring
MAT 411.  Mathematical Modeling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 211, MAT 241, and MAT 271 or CSC 121 or CSC 111.
Flexible course content depending on interest of instructor and students.
Possible topics are: epidemic and predator-prey models from differential
equations; linear programming models; Arrow's theorem; and probability
models.
Offered Spring
272 Mathematics (MAT)
MAT 413.  An Introduction to Partial Differential Equations.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 311 with a grade of C or better is required; MAT 213 is
recommended. Solutions to partial differential equations by separation of
variables and Fourier series. Applications to heat flow and diffusion, wave
motion, and potentials. Some discussion of existence and uniqueness of
solutions.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 417.  Math Methods for Data Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211 and MAT 247 are required; CSC 115 or MAT 241
are recommended. Methods include optimization (stochastic gradient
descent, alternating direction method of multipliers (ADMM), L1
minimization) with applications to Linear Regression, K-means and
Expectation-Maximization (EM) algorithm; matrix decomposition
(singular value decomposition (SVD), principal component analysis
(PCA) and nonnegative matrix decomposition) with applications to
recommendation system, image processing and computer vision.
Offered Fall
MAT 421.  Complex Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211 and MAT 271 with a grade of C or better. MAT 331
and MAT 401 (may be taken concurrently) are recommended. Complex
numbers; point sets, sequences and mappings; analytic functions;
elementary functions; integration; power series; the calculus of residues;
and applications.
Offered Spring
MAT 443.  History Of Mathematics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 193 with a grade of C or better. Traces the growth and
development of mathematics from primitive origins to present, uses
methods and concepts of mathematics to present the topics.
Offered Spring
MAT 447.  Number Theory.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 271 with a grade of C or better. Divisibility,
congruencies, prime number theory, Diophantine Equations, and other
topics from elementary number theory.
Offered Spring
MAT 448.  Cryptography.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 271 with a grade of C or better is required. CSC 115
or CSC 121 with a grade of C or better is recommended. Congruencies
and number theory, history and early cryptosystems, cryptographic data
structures, public key cryptography, additional cryptosystems such as
DES, AES, and elliptic curve cryptography. Computer implementations will
also be covered, as well any needed additional mathematical topics (e.g.
finite fields.)
Offered Fall
MAT 451.  Mathematical Statistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 351 or equivalent with a grade of C or better. Sums of
independent random variables; functions of random variables; chi-square,
F, and t distributions; estimation of parameters; maximum-likelihood,
unbiased, consistent, minimum-variance, and minimum-mean- square
error estimators; confidence intervals; central limit theorem.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 460.  Graph Theory and Algorithms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211, MAT 271, and MAT 241, or CSC 121, or
CSC 115 or equivalent with a grade of C or better are required. MAT 281
with a grade of C or better is recommended. Graphs, digraphs,
multigraphs, graph modeling, degrees and degree sequences, subgraphs,
isomorphisms of graphs, and digraphs, distance concepts and
applications, trees, and tree algorithms, Hamiltonian and Eulerean graphs.
The viewpoints will be conceptual, theoretical and algorithmic.
Offered Fall
MAT 489.  Fundamental Mathematics and Teaching in Secondary
Schools.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: 9 units of 300/400-level mathematics with a grade of C or
better; In order to begin the hours for fieldwork in this course, you will
need a valid Certificate of Clearance (fingerprints) and proof of a negative
TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork course beginning). For information
on submitting these documents, contact the Center for Teaching Careers.
Synthesis and analysis of secondary mathematics and its teaching.
Emphasis will be placed on algebraic thinking and its teaching in high
school. Forty hours of secondary classroom observations will be a
required activity in this course. A Certificate of Clearance is required.
Offered Spring
MAT 490.  Seminar in Mathematics Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: 9 units of 300/400 mathematics courses with a grade of
C or better. The synthesis and analysis of the secondary mathematics
curriculum from an advanced standpoint. Emphasis will be on
the integration of problem solving, investigations, reasoning, and
communication as recommended in state and national standards.
Offered Fall
MAT 495.  Selected Topics In Math.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and MAT 271. A course in a topic of
special interest to both faculty and students for which no current course
exists. Topic will be announced in schedule of classes. Repeatable for
credit. One to four hours of lecture per week.
Offered As needed
MAT 497.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 211, consent of instructor and consent of department
chair. A reading program of selected topics not covered by regularly
offered courses conducted under the supervision of a faculty member.
Offered As needed
MAT 500.  Mathematics Education Research Design and Statistics.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: Students must have graduate standing and must have
completed one year of full time secondary mathematics teaching.
Includes topics such as normal distribution, confidence intervals, t, F,
chi-squared tests, linear regression, and correlation. These topics are
presented in the context of mathematics education research in typical
classrooms.
Offered As needed
MAT 501.  Foundations of Geometric Thinking.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543 or concurrent enrollment. Students must
have graduate standing and must have completed one year of full
time secondary mathematics teaching. Research on Various topics in
geometry. Focus on developing notions of rigorous proof and gradeappropriate explanations. Topics are chosen from the Geometry areas
and standards emphasized in K-12.
Offered As needed
MAT 505.  Foundations of Mathematical Structures.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543 or concurrent enrollment. Students must have
graduate standing and must have completed one year of full time
secondary mathematics teaching. Topics include the algebraic properties
of sets and operations applied to classical number systems, equivalence,
modular arithmetic, Diophantine equations, decomposition of natural
numbers, special families of natural numbers, current research on
understanding and learning these topics.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 273
MAT 506.  Foundations of Rational Numbers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543 or concurrent enrollment. Students must have
graduate standing and must have completed one year of full time
secondary mathematics teaching. Covers theory and applications of
Rational numbers. Focus on number systems, representation of numbers,
equivalence classes, rationality and irrationality, properties of the rational
numbers system, central ideas of proportional reasoning, and developing
intuitive models of standard rules and algorithms.
Offered As needed
MAT 515.  Topics in Advanced Finite Math.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Possession of a baccalaureate degree and one year of fulltime secondary mathematics teaching. Topics from areas of Modern
Mathematics which relate to the high school mathematics curriculum
such as: algorithms, graph theory, coding theory, game theory, finite
probability theory, difference equations, voting, recursion.
Offered As needed
MAT 517.  Fractals for Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Possession of a baccalaureate degree and one year of fulltime secondary mathematics teaching. Topics from Fractal and Chaos
Theory including: the Cantor Set, Koch Curve, Julia Sets, space filing
curves. Brownian motion and Chaotic behavior. Selections to relate to the
high school mathematics curriculum.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 521.  Geometry For Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543, graduate standing and one year of full time
secondary mathematics teaching. Topics from Geometry including:
points and lines in a triangle, properties of circles, collinearity,
concurrence, transformations, arithmetic and geometric means,
isoperimetric theorems, reflection principle.
Offered As needed
MAT 522.  Foundations of Algebraic Thinking.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Students must have graduate standing and must have
completed one year of full time secondary mathematics teaching.
Patterns, functions, and multiple representations; independent and
dependent variables; discrete and continuous functions; linear and
nonlinear relationships in context; connections to arithmetic operations;
algebraic expressions and equations. Examines current research on the
understanding and learning of these topics.
Offered As needed
MAT 523.  Theory of Function.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543, graduate standing and one year of full time
secondary mathematics teaching.Topics from Function Theory
including: mathematical models, linear functions, non-linear functions,
transformations, limits, continuity, functions of several variables.
Offered As needed
MAT 525.  Algebraic Structures for Teachers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 543, graduate standing and one year of full time
secondary mathematics teaching. Topics relating to the high school
Algebra curriculum from an advanced standpoint including algorithms,
fields, polynomials, groups, fields, and rings.
Offered As needed
MAT 543.  Advanced Problem Solving.  (3 Units)  
Problem solving using non-routine strategies. Problems to be
representative of several branches of mathematics and mathematically
based disciplines.
Offered As needed
MAT 545.  History of Math Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and one year of full time secondary
teaching. Traces the development of the mathematics curriculum K-12
in the United States and internationally, concentrating both on content
taught at different stages and the teaching methods employed. Reviews
the various mathematics reform efforts over the past 170 years.
Offered As needed
MAT 555.  Research in Mathematics Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 and consent of program. Integrates previous work
and experience by emphasizing the application of theoretical models
and research designs to the field of mathematics education. Special
emphasis will be given to analyzing, organizing, and evaluating findings,
and communicating the results.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 557.  Research in Math Education I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 500 and 15 units of program. Overview of the current
research literature pertaining to mathematics education in elementary
and secondary schools. Topics such as mathematical reasoning,
communication, problem solving, algebra, and geometry will be discussed
and analyzed.
Offered As needed
MAT 559.  Research in Math Education II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 557. Overview of the current research literature
pertaining to mathematics education in elementary and secondary
schools. Topics such as mathematical reasoning, communication,
problem solving, algebra, and geometry will be discussed and analyzed.
Offered As needed
MAT 590.  Graduate Seminar in Mathematics Education.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Possession of a baccalaureate degree and one year of fulltime secondary mathematics teaching. Presentation and discussion of
selected topics in Mathematics Education. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 594S.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. In consultation
with a faculty member, the student will investigate in detail current
scholarship in some area. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MAT 595.  Selected Topics:.  (1-4 Units)  
Â An intensive study of selected issues in mathematics education.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MAT 597S.  Directed Reading.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Extensive
reading in selected areas under the guidance of faculty mentor.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MAT 598S.  Directed Research.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Classified graduate standing. Students will design and
conduct research projects under the direct supervision of the instructor.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
MAT 599.  Masters Project.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to Candidacy. Completion of classroom based
project under the guidance of faculty advisor. The culminating learning
experience of the program which emphasizes the application of the
mathematics education curriculum in the classroom.
Offered As needed
274 Military Science (MSL)
MAT 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Infrequent
Military Science (MSL)
MSL 101.  Foundations of Officership.  (1 Units)  
Recommended co-requisite: MSL 103. Introduces students to issues
and competencies that are central to a commissioned officer's
responsibilities. Establishes framework for understanding officership,
leadership, and followed army values including life skills such as physical
fitness and time management.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 102.  Basic Leadership.  (1 Units)  
Recommended co-requisite: MSL 104. Establishes foundation of basic
leadership fundamentals such as problem solving, communications, goal
setting, techniques for improving listening and speaking skills, briefings
and effective writing and an introduction to effective counseling.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 103.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 101.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: MSL 101. Course is designed to assist students with no
military background. The student will be a member of a squad and receive
instruction on small unit tactics, army values, army leadership techniques
and selected critical individual military skills. Lab is encouraged by
optional unless contracted. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 104.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 102.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisite: MSL 102. Course is designed to assist students with no
military background. The student will be a member of a squad and receive
instruction on small unit tactics, army values, army leadership techniques
and selected critical individual military skills. Lab is encouraged but not
required unless contracted. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 201.  Individual Leadership Studies.  (2 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: MSL 102. Recommended co-requisite:
MSL 203. Students identify successful characteristics through the
observation of others and through experimental learning exercises.
Students record observed traits (good and bad) in a dimensional learning
journal and discuss the observations in a small group setting.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 202.  Leadership and Teamwork.  (2 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: MSL 201.Â Recommended co-requisite:
MSL 203. Students identify successful characteristics through the
observation of others and through experimental learning exercises.
Students record observed traits (good and bad) in a dimensional learning
journal and discuss the observations in a small group setting.
Offered Spring
MSL 203.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 201.  (1 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: MSL 102, MSL 104. Recommended corequisite: MSL 201. Students will transition into becoming a small group
leader and will perform duties of military fire team leader and squad
leader. Cadet will learn army values, leadership techniques and selected
individual military skills. Lab is encouraged but not required unless
contracted. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 204.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 202.  (1 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: MSL 101, MSL 103.Â Co-requisite: MSL 202.
Students will perform duties of military fire team leader and squad
leader. Cadet will learn army values, leadership techniques and selected
individual military skills. Students will be assessed for leadership
performance. Lab is encouraged but not required unless contracted. CR/
NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 301.  Leadership and Problem Solving.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 202 and MSL 204 or consent of instructor. Corequisite: MSL 303. Students conduct self-assessment of their leadership
style, develop personal fitness programs and learn how to plan and
conduct small unit training while testing their reasoning and problem
solving techniques. Students receive direct feedback on their leadership
skills.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 302.  Leadership and Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 301 and MSL 303. Co-requisite: MSL 304. Examines
the role communications, values, and ethics play in effective leadership.
Topics include ethical decision-making, consideration of others,
spirituality in the military, and survey Army leadership doctrine. Emphasis
on improving oral and written communication abilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 303.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 301.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 202 and MSL 204, or consent of instructor. Corequisite: MSL 301. Course teaches leadership skills, counseling, oral and
written communications, supervision, and preparation and conduct of
training. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 304.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 302.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 301 and MSL 303. Co-requisite: MSL 302. Students
serve in various leadership positions including squad, platoon and
company levels. Responsible for developing and executing unit plans and
orders; training other students, executing small unit tactics and preparing
for Advanced Camp Training/Evaluation. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 401.  Leadership Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 302 and MSL 304. Co-requisite: MSL 403. Develops
the students' proficiency in planning and executing complex operations,
functioning as a member of a staff and mentoring subordinates. Students
explore training management, methods of effective staff collaborations
and developmental counseling techniques.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 402.  Officership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 401 and MSL 403. Co-requisite: MSL 404. Study
includes case study analysis of military law and practical exercises on
establishing an ethical command climate. Students must complete a
semester long leadership project that requires them to plan, organize,
collaborate, analyze and demonstrate their leadership skills.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 403.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 401.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 302 and MSL 304. Co-requisite: MSL 401. Accepted
as a cadet in the ROTC program, cadet will serve in leadership positions
at the platoon, company and battalion levels. Responsible for planning,
execution, and evaluation of ROTC training activities. Cadet will also
serve as mentor for junior cadets. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 275
MSL 404.  Military Science and Leadership Lab for MSL 402.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSL 401 and MSL 403. Co-requisite: MSL 402. Accepted
as a cadet in the ROTC program, cadet will serve in leadership positions
at the platoon, company and battalion levels. Responsible for planning
and evaluation of ROTC training activities. Cadet will serve as mentor for
junior cadets. Upon completion of course, the cadets will be prepared to
serve as commissioned officers. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSL 411.  United States Military History.  (3 Units)  
Study of the American military establishment and the art of war with
emphasis placed on the changing nature of warfare in the face of social,
economic, and technological developments.
Offered Fall, Spring
Modern Languages (MLG)
MLG 195.  Special Topics in Modern Languages..  (3 Units)  
Study of special interest for students in the selected area of study. Topic
and content will vary as announced. Repeatable for a credit.
Offered As needed
MLG 294.  Independent Study in Modern Languages I.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and chair of Modern Languages.
Beginning/intermediate individual study and or credit by examination in a
foreign language not regularly offered on campus. Arrangements must be
made in advance of registration. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MLG 295.  Special Topics in Modern Languages.  (3 Units)  
Study of special interest for students in the selected area of study. Topic
and content will vary as announced. Repeatable for a credit.
Offered As needed
MLG 318.  New Perspectives on Language and Sex.  (3 Units)  
This interdisciplinary and pluricultural course introduces students
to the analysis of language and gender. Analyzes themes regarding
sociolinguistic visibility and representation of gender and sex through a
critical examination of the interaction and interrelation between language
and gender.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MLG 494.  Independent Study in Modern Languages II.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and chair of Modern Languages.
Intermediate or advanced individual study or credit by examination in a
foreign language not regularly offered on campus. Arrangements must be
made in advance of registration. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MLG 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Music (MUS)
MUS 100.  Concert Music.  (1 Units)  
This course provides training and support for music majors at a beginner
level through in-class performances, masterclasses, music journalism
essays, attendance at various music performances and department
camaraderie. Required attendance in-class and at approved music
performances as determined by the Department of Music. May be
repeated once. CR/NC grading. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 101.  Introducing Music.  (3 Units)  
The technique of listening to music. The elements of music, musical
forms, and historical styles. Concert attendance and discussion will be an
integral part. Satisfies a General Education Requirement. This course is
restricted to 1st time Freshman going through the First Year Experience.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 105.  Introduction to Musicianship.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in MUS 101 or MUS 110 is
recommended. An activity course in which students will begin exercises
in music perception skills, pitch matching, identification of musical
patterns, beginning ear-training and sight-singing drills. Preparation
for the Musicianship Proficiency Exam. Repeatable course. Two hours
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 106.  Musicianship Skills.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 105, MUS 110, and MUS 111 are recommended.
Ear training, sight-singing, rhythm, keyboard harmony, and melodic and
rhythmic dictation. This course is meant to parallel work in MUS 112 and
MUS 113. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 110.  Music Fundamentals.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in MUS 109 is recommended.
Music rudiments taught through reading, writing, harmonizing and
creating songs. Includes principles of notation, key signatures, scales,
intervals, triads and chord progressions. Satisfies a General Education
Requirement.
Offered Fall
MUS 111.  Intro. To Music Theory.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 110 or placement test. Elements of music taught
through reading, writing and harmonizing at the keyboard. Topics include
key signatures, scales, intervals and basic harmony.
Offered Spring
MUS 112.  Music Theory I.  (3 Units)  
Musical theory emphasizing materials from the Common Practice
Period (1700-1900). The vocabulary of diatonic scales and modes,
chords and their relationships, phrase structure and cadences, harmonic
progressions, non-harmonic tones and the technique of harmonization.
Offered Fall
MUS 113.  Music Theory II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 112 and concurrent enrollment in MUS 106.
Chromatic Harmony of the Common Practice Period. Harmonic analysis,
secondary dominants, modulation, borrowed chords, augmented sixth
chords, Neapolitan sixth chords, diminished sevenths, and ninth, eleventh
and thirteenth chords.
Offered Spring
MUS 120.  Beginning Voice Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Fundamental principles of singing.
Posture, breath control, tone production, diction and performance
techniques and styles. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 122.  Beginning Guitar Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Previous or concurrent enrollment in MUS 101 and MUS 110
or consent of instructor is recommended. Beginning instruction in guitar
technique, single string melody, and chord positions. Repeatable course.
Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
276 Music (MUS)
MUS 160.  Repertoire.  (1 Units)  
Special topics vary by section and semester. See Class Schedule for title
and prerequisites. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 167.  Latin American Regional Music Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance practices of Latina
American musical traditions. Through participation in varying-sized
ensembles, students will demonstrate their acquired knowledge and skills
in a public performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 168.  Pep Band.  (1 Units)  
Prepares students for performances at university and athletic events
while providing them an opportunity to grow and improve in individual
and ensemble performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 169.  Early Music Collegium.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance of music of the Middle
Ages, Renaissance, and Baroque periods. Students will receive
instructions on historically informed performance practice and present a
concert at the end of each semester.
MUS 170.  Chamber Music.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small
instrumental ensemble rehearsal and performance. Type of group
may vary. See Class Schedule for title. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 171.  Chamber Singers.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small vocal
ensemble rehearsal and performance. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 172.  Jubilee Choir.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study and performance of choral
music of Afro-American culture. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Spring
MUS 173.  Jazz Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Techniques of improvisation
and a study and performance of instrumental jazz repertoire. Public
performances expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 175.  Band.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of concert band music. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 176.  Orchestra.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for symphony orchestra. Public performances
expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra
rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 177.  Chorus.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for chorus. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 178.  Guitar Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor (audition). A study of music through
rehearsal and performance of music for guitar ensemble. Public
performance expected. Repeatable once at each level. Three hours
of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 179.  Music Theatre Workshop.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of instructor. Study of roles and
representative excerpts from opera, operetta, and musical comedy and
the basic musical, dramatic and language technique of the musical
theater. Performance of excerpts or complete musical theatrical works.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 180.  Individual Lessons.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of Department Chair and Instructor.
Individual instruction in the student's major performance medium
developing technique and repertoire. Individual one-half hour lesson
times are arranged with the studio teacher. Public performance and jury
evaluation expected. Lessons are available in voice, piano, harpsichord,
organ, accordion, flute, oboe, clarinet, bassoon, saxophone, trumpet,
horn, trombone, tuba, percussion, violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp,
classical guitar, lute, commercial guitar, and electric bass. Primarily for
performance majors. Instrument fee may be required. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 181.  Introduction to Piano I.  (1 Units)  
Beginning instruction in keyboard technique. Repeatable course. Two
hours of activity.
Offered Fall, All terms
MUS 182.  Introduction to Piano II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 181 or consent of instructor. Beginning instruction in
keyboard technique. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 183.  Piano I.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 181 and MUS 182 are recommended. Intermediate
instruction in keyboard techniques. Keyboard harmony, scales, chords
and improvised accompaniments. Repeatable course. Two hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall
MUS 184.  Piano II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 183 or consent of instructor. Intermediate instruction
in keyboard technique. Keyboard harmony, scales, chords and improvised
accompaniments. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
MUS 195.  Special Topics in Music.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study and performance of choral
music of Afro-American culture. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered As needed
2024-25 University Catalog 277
MUS 200.  Concert Music II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 100. Provides training and support for music majors
at a beginner-intermediate level through in-class performances,
masterclasses, music journalism essays, attendance at various music
performances, and department camaraderie. Required attendance
in-class and at approved music performances as determined by the
Department of Music. May be repeated once. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 201.  Music in Film: From the Silent Era to The Lord of the Rings.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 101 is recommended Studies film music over the
past century and is open to all majors. Through readings, lectures,
listening, and film viewing, students study music's continually changing
relationship with film, composition styles, and musical and cultural
diversity.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 206.  Advanced Musicianship Skills.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 106 is required. MUS 112 and MUS 113 are
recommended. Ear training, sight-singing, rhythm, keyboard harmony,
and melodic, harmonic and rhythmic dictation. This course parallels work
in MUS 310 and MUS 311 and provide preparation for the Musicianship
Proficiency Exam. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 212.  Advanced Music Theory I.  (3 Units)  
Structural, contrapuntal and harmonic analysis of musical forms from
the Medieval through the Classical periods. A study of the literature,
instrumentation, and notation. Practice includes aural analysis and
creative composition.
Offered Fall
MUS 213.  Advanced Music Theory II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 212 or consent of instructor is required; concurrent
enrollment in MUS 206 and MUS 316 is recommended. Structural,
harmonic and contrapuntal analysis of musical forms from the
Romantic period through the Twentieth Century. A study of the literature,
instrumentation and notation. Practice includes aural analysis and
creative composition.
Offered All terms, Spring
MUS 220.  Intermediate Voice Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101, MUS 110 and MUS 120 or Consent of instructor.
Singing with an emphasis on the vocal mechanism, use of the voice in
ensemble singing and style in songs. Development of solo repertoire.
Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 222.  Intermediate Guitar Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101, MUS 110 and MUS 122 or consent of instructor.
Intermediate instruction in guitar technique, scales, chords and
improvised accompaniments. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 223.  Intermediate Flamenco Guitar.  (1 Units)  
Provides students with an introduction to the concepts and techniques
necessary to play flamenco guitar, including tonality/mode and the
workings of compas (the rhythmic structures unique to flamenco)
Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 250.  History of Rock.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 101 is recommended. Studies the origins and
movements of rock music including blues, R&B, soul, funk, and hip hop.
Includes historical development, social contexts, associated styles and
sub-genres, aesthetics, meanings, and music technology. Examines
influential and innovative performers, songwriters, and producers.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 260.  Repertoire.  (1 Units)  
Pre-requisite: MUS 160 (two semesters) is required; Corequisite:MUS 280. Studio instruction in an applied area that
complements ad provides additional depth to that which is offered in
MUS 280. In depth study of Etudes, scales, arpeggios, and supplemental
solo repertoire.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 267.  Latin American Regional Music.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance practices of Latina
American musical traditions. Through participation in varying-sized
ensembles, students will demonstrate their acquired knowledge and skills
in a public performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 268.  Pep Band.  (1 Units)  
Prepares students for performances at university and athletic events
while providing them an opportunity to grow and improve in individual
and ensemble performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 269.  Early Music Collegium.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance of music of the Middle
Ages, Renaissance, and Baroque periods. Students will receive
instructions on historically informed performance practice and present a
concert at the end of each semester.
Offered All terms
MUS 270.  Chamber Music.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Music study through small
instrumental ensemble rehearsal and performance. Type of group
may vary. See Class Schedule for title. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 271.  Chamber Singers.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small vocal
ensemble rehearsal and performance. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 272.  Jubilee Choir.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 110 or consent of instructor. An introduction to music
fundamentals and techniques for dance accompaniment. Two hours of
activity per week.
Offered Spring
MUS 273.  Jazz Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Techniques of improvisation
and a study and performance of instrumental jazz repertoire. Public
performances expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
278 Music (MUS)
MUS 275.  Band.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Rehearsal and performance of
concert band music. Public performances expected. Repeatable once.
Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance
times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 276.  Orchestra.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Rehearsal and performance
of music for symphony orchestra. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 277.  Chorus.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Rehearsal and performance of music
for chorus. Public performances expected. Repeatable once. Three hours
of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 278.  Guitar Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor (audition). A study of music through
rehearsal and performance of music for guitar ensemble. Public
performance expected. Repeatable once at each level. Three hours
of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 279.  Music Theatre Workshop.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of instructor. Study of roles and
representative excerpts from opera, operetta, and musical comedy and
the basic musical, dramatic and language technique of the musical
theater. Performance of excerpts and complete musical theatrical works.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 280.  Individual Lessons.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of department chair and instructor.
Individual instruction in the student's major performance medium
developing techniques and repertoire at a beginner-intermediate level.
Individual one hour lesson times are arranged with the studio teacher.
Public performance and jury evaluation expected. Lessons are available
in voice, piano, harpsichord,orgran, accordion, flute, oboe, clarinet,
bassoon, saxophone, trumpet, French horn, Trombone, euphonium,
tuba, percussion, violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, classical guitar,
lute, commercial guitar, and electric bass. Primarily for music majors.
Instrument fee may be required. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 283.  Piano III.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101 or MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Basic
principles of the early childhood music teaching methods developed by
Carl Orff. Music education through movement, singing, speech and drama
and use of Orff musical instruments. Two hours of lecture and two hours
of activity per week.
Offered Fall
MUS 284.  Piano IV.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 283 or consent of instructor. Advanced instruction in
keyboard technique. Development of solo repertoire and preparation for
the Piano Proficiency Exam. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring
MUS 290.  Music Industry I: Survey of the Music Industry.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to careers in the music industry and enhances their
ability to recognize how these professions affect and impact our daily
lives. Course examines the many different career fields that make the
music industry profitable and progressive.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 294.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. The student
investigates a scholarly topic or undertakes directed research or
a creative project with the assistance of a Music faculty member.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 295.  Special Studies In Music.  (3 Units)  
Special topics vary by section and semester. See Class Schedule for title
and prerequisites. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
MUS 300.  Concert Music III.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 200 is required. Provides training and support for
music majors at an intermediate level through in-class performances,
master classes, music journalism essays, attendance at various music
performances, and department camaraderie. Required attendance
in class and at approved music performances as determined by the
Department of Music Repeatable once. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 301.  Music In World Cultures.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 101 or 110 or consent of instructor. Survey of nonWestern cultures from a musical point of view. Using familiar folk and
popular music for comparison, students will be guided into new listening
experiences, develop a vocabulary for discussing world music, and gain
an appreciation of cultural pluralism.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 302.  African American Music.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the music of African Americans from roots in African
cultural practice to current day. Musical genres include blues, spirituals,
gospel, jazz, classical, R&B, soul, funk, hip-hop, rap, etc. The course is
designed for music and non-music majors.
Offered Spring
MUS 305A.  Music For Dance.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101 and MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Survey
and analysis of music suitable for children. History and philosophy of
American music education emphasizing influences of European systems
of Kodaly, Dalcroze, and Orff. Two hours of lecture and two hours of
activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 308.  Popular & Jazz Harmony.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 210 or consent of instructor. Analysis of chords and
scale patterns, chord symbols, and chord substitutions in popular music
and jazz.
Offered Fall
MUS 312.  The Jazz Age.  (3 Units)  
Explores the social, cultural, and historical turbulence of the 1920s with
a focus on the ways jazz aesthetics in music, literature, and the arts
influenced and reflected new ways of thinking about American identity.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 279
MUS 315.  Counterpoint.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 211 or consent of instructor. Counterpoint as a linear
mode of compositional technique in Western music. Modal, tonal and
post-tonal practices.
Offered Spring
MUS 316.  Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 211 or MUS 308. Acoustical and musical
characteristics of all the major orchestral and band instruments. Written
assignments will include transcriptions for combination of instruments
both as families and mixed ensembles.
Offered Fall, All terms
MUS 320.  Advanced Voice Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101, MUS 110 and MUS 220 or consent of instructor.
Singing with emphasis on vocal mechanism, use of the voice in ensemble
singing, and style in songs. Development of solo repertoire in foreign
languages. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 322.  Advanced Guitar Class.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101, MUS 110 and MUS 222 or consent of instructor.
Advanced instruction in guitar technique. Development of solo repertoire.
Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 323.  Advanced Flamenco Guitar.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Mus 223 required Course follows up on the concepts and
techniques introduced in MUS 223, allowing students to move closer to
mastery of flamenco guitar. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per
week
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 325.  Instrumental Conducting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 310 or consent of instructor. An introduction to the
basic techniques of conducting both instrumental groups, score reading,
baton technique and fundamentals of interpretation. Repeatable course.
Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
MUS 326.  Choral Conducting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 212 or consent of instructor is required. An
introduction to the basic techniques of conducting choral groups and
the international phonetic alphabet (IPA). Score reading, hand technique,
study of diction, pronunciation, and fundamentals of interpretation.
Repeatable course. Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall
MUS 333.  Foundations in Music Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 180 and MUS 280; In order to begin the hours for
fieldwork in this course, you will need a valid Certificate of Clearance
(fingerprints) and proof of a negative TB (within 4 months of the fieldwork
course beginning). For information on submitting these documents,
contact the Center for Teaching Careers. A survey of the leading
historical, technological, and pedagogical approaches to music education
in the United States. This course contains an observation component in
the field.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 340.  Music For Children.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 282 or consent of instructor.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 345.  Global Popular Music: Identity and Social Change.  (3 Units)  
Explores popular music and social change in Africa, Asia, South Asia,
Southeast Asia, and Latin America. Students will consider social
development, modernity, and political movements in relation to music and
text as resistance and representing social change.
Offered Fall
MUS 360.  Repertoire.  (1 Units)  
Pre-requisite: MUS 260 (two semesters); Co-requisite: MUS 380. Studio
instruction in an applied area that complements and provides additional
depth to that which is offered in MUS 380. In depth study of Etudes,
scales, arpeggios, and supplemental repertoire. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 367.  Latin American Regional Music Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance practices of Latina
American musical traditions. Through participation in varying-sized
ensembles, students will demonstrate their acquired knowledge and skills
in a public performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 368.  Pep Band.  (1 Units)  
Prepares students for performances at university and athletic events
while providing them an opportunity to grow and improve in individual
and ensemble performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 369.  Early Music Collegium.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance of music of the Middle
Ages, Renaissance, and Baroque periods. Students will receive
instructions on historically informed performance practice and present a
concert at the end of each semester.
Offered All terms
MUS 370.  Chamber Music.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small
instrumental ensemble rehearsal and performance. Type of group
may vary by section and semester. See Class Schedule for title. Public
performances expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 371.  Chamber Singers.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small vocal
ensemble rehearsal and performance. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 372.  Jubilee Choir.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study and performance of choral
music of Afro-American culture. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Spring
MUS 373.  Jazz Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Techniques of improvisation
and a study of performance of instrumental jazz repertoire. Public
performances expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 375.  Band.  (1 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
280 Music (MUS)
MUS 376.  Orchestra.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for symphony orchestra. Public performances
expected. Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra
rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 377.  Chorus.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for chorus. Public performances expected.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 378.  Guitar Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor (audition). A study of music through
rehearsal and performance of music for guitar ensemble. Public
performance expected. Repeatable once at each level. Three hours
of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 379A.  Music Theatre Workshop.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of instructor. Study of roles and
representative excerpts from opera, operetta, and musical comedy and
the basic musical, dramatic and language technique of the musical
theater. Performance of excerpts and complete musical theatrical works.
Repeatable once. Three hours of activity per week plus extras rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 380.  Individual Lessons.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of department chair and instructor.
individual instruction in the student's major performance medium
developing technique and repertoire at an intermediate level. Individual
one hour lesson times are arranged with the studio teacher. Public
performance and jury evaluation expected. Lessons are available
in voice, piano, harpsichord, organ, accordion, flute, oboe, clarinet,
bassoon, saxophone, trumpet, French horn, trombone, euphonium,
tuba, percussion, violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, classic guitar,
lute, commercial guitar, and electric bass. Primarily for music majors.
Instrument fee may be required. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
MUS 382.  Advanced Piano II.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 381 or consent of instructor. Advanced instruction in
keyboard technique. Development of solo repertoire and preparation for
the Piano Proficiency Exam. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Spring, All terms
MUS 385.  Medieval and Renaissance Music.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101 and MUS 110 or consentof instructor. Music
from the Medieval period through the Renaissance. Gregorian chant,
Leonin, Perotin, Machaut, Dufay, Ockeghem, Josquin, Gombert, Willaert,
Palestrina, Lasso, Gabrielli and other composers. Study of styles of
music to uncover the various musical, aesthetic, and social determinants
underlying the musical literature.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
MUS 386.  Music History I: Medieval to Renaissance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 101 and MUS 110 or consent of instructor. This
course covers music from the Medieval through the Renaissance period.
The study of styles of music to engage various musical, aesthetic, and
social determinants underlying the musical literature..
Offered Spring
MUS 390.  Music Industry II: Music Marketing, Media and
Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 290 is required. Provides students with an
understanding of the inner and outer-workings of artist and concert
management, nonprofit arts management, arts enterprise management,
advertising management, digital marketing, public relations, branding,
merchandising, endorsements, sponsorships, promotion and touring, and
big data.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 395.  Special Studies/Activities In Music.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
MUS 400.  Concert Music IV.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 300 is required. Provides training and support for
music majors as an advanced level through in-class performances,
masterclasses, music journalism essays, attendance at various music
performances, and department camaraderie. Required attendance
in-class and at approved music performances as determined by the
Department of Music. May be repeated once. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 408.  Advanced Songwriting.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 308 or consent of instructor. Original songs created
by students will be performed, discussed, and constructively criticized.
Well-known popular, show, country, rock and R and B songs will be
studied as models of melodic, harmonic, rhythmic, structural and poetic
composition. Field trips and guest lecturers from the industry. Publishing
and copyright procedures.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 415.  Composition and Arranging: Art Music.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 311 or consent of instructor. Composition and
arranging of art music utilizing a variety of resources, from traditional
instruments and voice to new instruments, electronics and computer.
Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
MUS 416.  Composition and Arranging: Popular and Jazz.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 308 or consent of instructor. Composition and
arranging for popular and jazz ensembles with an emphasis on
contemporary styles. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
MUS 421.  Instrumental Methods: MUS ED.  (3 Units)  
Required Co-requisite: MUS 333 Intensive preparation for prospective
educators with focus on teaching instrumental music in schools
(elementary, middle, and high school). Includes examination of
appropriate literature, classroom management, and teaching pedagogy.
Course contains a field experience component.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 433.  Contemporary Pedagogy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 333 and MUS 421 required. In order to begin the
hours for fieldwork in this course, you will need a valid Certificate of
Clearance (fingerprints) and proof of a negative TB (within 4 months of
the fieldwork course beginning). For information on submitting these
documents, contact the Center for Teaching Careers. Study of the
contemporary principles, techniques, and procedures effective for small
and large group music instruction. Emphasis on the development of
philosophy, methodology, and teaching strategies. Course contains a field
experience component.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 281
MUS 440.  Intro To Orff Schulwerk.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for symphony orchestra. Public performances
expected. Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per week plus extra
rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 441.  Marching Band Techniques.  (1 Units)  
Pedagogy, management and administration of a marching band program.
Content will address marching percussion, marching and maneuvering,
and attached units.
Offered As needed
MUS 445.  String Instruments.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Introduction to the
principles and literature of string instruments, with emphasis on skills
necessary for future teachers of instrumental ensembles. Repeatable
course. Two hours of activity per week. Instrument fee may be required.
Offered Spring
MUS 446.  Woodwind Instruments.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Instrument fee may
be required. Introduction to the principles and literature of woodwind
instruments with emphasis on skills necessary for future teachers of
instrumental ensembles. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per
week.
Offered Fall
MUS 447.  Brass Instruments.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Introduction to the
principles and literature of brass instruments with emphasis on skills,
necessary for future teachers of instrumental performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Spring
MUS 448.  Percussion Instruments.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MUS 110 or consent of instructor. Introduction to the
principles and literature of percussion instruments with emphasis
on skills necessary for future teachers of instrumental ensembles.
Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week. Instrument fee may
be required.
Offered Fall
MUS 449.  Vocal & Choral Techniques.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 106 or consent of instructor is required. Introduction
to the principles and literature of vocal and choral instruction, with
emphasis on skills necessary for future teachers of choral ensembles.
Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
MUS 460.  Repertoire.  (1 Units)  
Pre-requisite: MUS 360(two semesters); Co-requisite: MUS 480. Studio
instruction in an applied area that complements and provides additional
depth to that which is offered in MUS 380. In depth study of Etudes,
scales, arpeggios, and supplemental repertoire. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 467.  Latin American Regional Music Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance practices of Latina
American musical traditions. Through participation in varying-sized
ensembles, students will demonstrate their acquired knowledge and skills
in a public performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 468.  Pep Band.  (1 Units)  
Prepares students for performances at university and athletic events
while providing them an opportunity to grow and improve in individual
and ensemble performance.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 469.  Early Music Collegium.  (1 Units)  
Students primarily focus on the performance of music of the Middle
Ages, Renaissance, and Baroque periods. Students will receive
instructions on historically informed performance practice and present a
concert at the end of each semester.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 470.  Chamber Music.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small
instrumental ensemble rehearsal and performance. Type of group
may vary by section and semester. See Class Schedule for title. Public
performances expected. Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 471.  Chamber Singers.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study of music through small vocal
ensemble rehearsal and performance. Public performances expected.
Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 472.  Jubilee Choir.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Study and performance of choral
music of Afro-American culture. Public performances expected.
Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Spring
MUS 473.  Jazz Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Techniques of improvisation
and a study and performance of instrumental jazz repertoire. Public
performances expected. Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per
week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 475.  Band.  (1 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 476.  Orchestra.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of department chair and instructor. Individual
instruction and guidance in the technique of conducting instrumental
and vocal ensembles. Individual lesson times are arranged with the
instructor. Public performance and jury evaluation expected. Primarily for
conducting majors. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 477.  Chorus.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A study of music through rehearsal
and performance of music for chorus. Public performances expected.
Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 478.  Guitar Ensemble.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor (audition). A study of music through
rehearsal and performance of music for guitar ensemble. Public
performance expected. Repeatable once at each level. Three hours
of activity per week plus extra rehearsal and performance times to be
arranged.
Offered Infrequent
282 Music (MUS)
MUS 479A.  Music Theatre Workshop.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of instructor. Study of roles and
representative excerpts from opera, operetta, and musical comedy and
the basic musical, dramatic and language technique of the musical
theater. Performance of excerpts and complete musical theatrical works.
Repeatable course. Three hours of activity per week plus extra rehearsal
and performance times to be arranged.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 480.  Individual Lessons.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Audition and consent of department chair and instructor.
Individual instruction in the student's major performance medium
developing technique and repertoire at an advance level. Individual
one hour lesson times are arranged with the studio teacher. Public
performance and jury evaluation expected. Lessons are available
in voice, piano, harpsichord, organ, accordion, flute, oboe, clarinet,
bassoon, saxophone, trumpet. French horn, trombone, euphonium,
tuba, percussion, violin, viola, cello, string bass, harp, classical guitar,
lute, commercial guitar and electric bass. Primarily for music majors.
Instrument fee may be required. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 481S.  Ind Lessons-Comp & Arrang.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of department chair and instructor. Individual
instruction and guidance with music composition and arranging projects.
Individual lesson times are arranged with the instructor. Jury evaluation
expected. Primarily for composition majors. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 483A.  Interpretation Of Music.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in upper division individual lessons
or consent of instructor. Exploration of a wide variety of topics relating
to the interpretation of music from various stylistic periods. Recorded
examples and student performances will be analyzed and compared
with particular attention given to historic authenticity and contemporary
practices. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
MUS 485.  Music History II: Baroque to Romantic.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MUS 106 and MUS 112 or consent of instructor. Covers
music from the Baroque through the Romantic period. The study of styles
of music to engage various musical, aesthetic, and social determinants
underlying the musical literature
Offered Fall
MUS 486.  Music History III: 1880 to Contemporary.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Two semesters of MUS 106 and 113 or consent of
instructor. A critical analysis of music from the late Romantic through
to the present. Students will focus on disciplinary writing on several
styles of music to uncover the various technical, aesthetic, and social
determinants underlying the musical literature. Students will actively
refine their academic writing in music for diverse audiences, including
writing for other musicians and the general public. Restricted to majors.
A grade of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all
Music majors and minors.
Offered Spring
MUS 493.  Recital.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in MUS 480 or MUS 580. Preparation
and performance of a full or half music recital. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. In consultation
with a Music faculty member, the student investigates a scholarly topic or
undertakes a creative project. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 495.  Special Studies In Music.  (1-3 Units)  
Special topics vary by section and semester. See Class Schedule for title
and prerequisites. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 496.  Music Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of department chair. Students participate in an
off-campus internship with an approved employer. Provides for an
integration of academic study and related work experience. CR/NC
grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 499.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. In consultation
with a Music faculty member, student undertakes a major project which
may be one of the following: original research and thesis on a given
music history or theoretical topic, a creative project such as an original
composition or a full recital with supporting scholarly program notes.
Offered Fall, Spring
MUS 580.  Performance, Performance Practices and Repertoire.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisite: Audition and consent of department chair and instructor.
Ensembles. Repeatable course. Two hours of activity per week.
Instrument fee may be required.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 581S.  Ind Lessons-Comp & Arrang.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of department chair and instructor. Individual
instruction and guidance with music composition and arranging projects.
Individual lesson times are arranged with the instructor. Jury evaluation
expected. Primarily for composition majors. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 582S.  Indiv Lessons-Conducting.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 290, NCR 390, and NCR 405. Preparation for
application of knowledge of negotiation, conflict resolution, and
peacebuilding in school settings. Explores pedagogies appropriate for the
development of conflict resolution skills and techniques as basis for both
elective and prescriptive training modules.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 593S.  Recital.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Concurrent enrollment in MUS 580. Preparation and
performance of a full or half music recital. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
MUS 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. In consultation
with a Music faculty member, the student investigates a scholarly topic or
undertakes a creative project. Repeatable
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 283
Negotiation&Conflict Res (NCR)
NCR 190.  Seminar: Negotiation Theory.  (3 Units)  
Negotiation Theory will be presented through consideration of the game
and other theories used in bargaining at all levels of society, so that the
student will understand why negotiation is the underlying art in human
affairs. Students will acquire the ability to appropriately select and apply
tools of negotiation to conflict resolution and peacebuilding in order to
achieve personal, community, national and international goals.
Offered As needed
NCR 289.  Key Issues in Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to theories of peace, conflict and violence. Emphasis is on
interdisciplinary character of peacebuilding and application of theories
and methods. Students gain understanding of nature of social conflict,
causes of violence and the meanings of peacebuilding at all levels.
Offered Fall
NCR 290.  Intro to Negotiation Theory.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Sophomore standing and instructor approval.
Consideration of theories used in bargaining at all levels of society
to understand why negotiation is the underlying art in human affairs.
Students will acquire ability to appropriately select and apply tools on
negotiation to conflict resolution and peacebuilding.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 291.  Psychology of Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
Examinies how psychological processes, cognitive and emotional,
individual and collective, combine with external factors in causing
violence. How these psychological insights can help prevent and resolve
violent conflicts is examined through consideration of peacebuilding
approaches.
Offered Spring
NCR 294.  Independent Study in NCR.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor Independent study of particular
topics in the subject area under the direction of a member of the subject
department faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 296.  Undergraduate Internship: Peacebuilding I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor, restricted to majors. Under the
direction of the internship faculty associate, students work in various
approved internship opportunities.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 387.  Enviornment and Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
Peacebuilding and conflict transformation combine with ecology in
an effort to reconsider the human relationship system as it combines
with our environment. Explores how society might foster environmental
improvements and sustainable development to achieve successful
peacebuilding goals.
Offered Fall
NCR 390.  Fundamentals of Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 290. Introduction to fundamentals involved with
interdisciplinary conflict resolution and peacebuilding. Emphasis on
ways the arts and humanities shape and form its ethics and methods.
Issues like truth and cultural perspective-taking will be explored along
with storytelling narrative; creativity/imagination.
Offered Fall, Spring
NCR 391.  Restorative Justice.  (3 Units)  
Restorative arts and healing within conflict resolution encourages those
who have harmed another to repair their harm. Victims, including affected
community, receive opportunity to encounter offender, ask questions and
share how they have been harmed. Restorative Discipline included.
Offered Fall
NCR 394.  Independent Study in NCRP.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor Independent study of particular
topics in the subject area under the direction of a member of the subject
department faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 396.  Undergraduate Internship: Peacebuilding II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor, restricted to majors. Under the
direction of the internship faculty associate, students work in various
approved internship opportunities.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 405.  Research Methods: NCRP.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 290 and NCR 390. Instructs in strategic research
approaches used to develop new tools, methods or projects for analysis
emphasizing theoretical, analytical, research and practical skills in writing
and critical thinking in the field of negotiation, conflict resolution and
peacebuilding.
Offered Fall
NCR 410.  NCRP Pedagogy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Addresses emerging
practice of conflict resolution in cyberspace. ODR utilizes online
resources as the fourth party collaborating with the traditional third party
in resolving conflicts more efficiently and less expensively.
Offered Spring
NCR 490.  Capstone Course: NCRP.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 290, NCR 390, NCR 405 and NCR 410. Community
service learning utilizing outside internships (120 hours) plus weekly
class sessions (75 minutes each). Internship will include successful
completion of 25-hour mediation skills and techniques training. Requires
demonstration of ability to negotiate and resolve disputes.
Offered Spring
NCR 494S.  Independent Study in NCRP.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of the instructor Independent study of particular
topics in the subject area under the direction of a member of the subject
department faculty. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 495.  Special Topics in Negotiation, Conflict Resolution and
Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Approval of Program Director. Intensive study of an
issue, concept, theme or method in Negotiation, Confilct Resolution
& Peacebuilding. May be taken for credit only once for the major.
Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
NCR 496.  Undergraduate Intern: Peacebuilding III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor, restricted to majors. Under the
direction of the internship faculty associate, students work in various
approved internship opportunities.
Offered Infrequent
284 Negotiation&Conflict Res (NCR)
NCR 500.  NCRP Skills Concepts & Tools.  (3 Units)  
Determining specific purpose and key issues when negotiating, resolving
conflict, and building peace. Effective application when reading, writing,
speaking, and listening. Questioning information, conclusions, and points
of view with clarity, accuracy, precision and relevance. Thinking beyond
the box with fairness and logic.
Offered Fall
NCR 503.  Ethics of NCRP.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 500. Examines individual group values and
perspectives in relation to negotiation, conflict resolution and
peacebuilding processes, with special emphasis on analyzing third party
intervener's ethical responsibilities and dilemmas. Case studies used to
examine and formulate ethical approaches to critical issues.
Offered Spring
NCR 504.  Theories of Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 500. Critical analysis of conflict theories and models
among individuals, organizations and governments; exploring causes,
functions and effects. Perspectives from anthropology, archaeology,
biology, communications, economics, gender studies, geography, history,
Offered Fall
NCR 507.  Sem. Res Desig/Intrepret.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 500, 503 and 504. Considers various research methods
to be used in negotiation, conflict resolution and peacebuilding. Covers
research design and the tools needed to conduct basic independent
research. Students develop a compelling research proposal addressing
questions of importance to them.
Offered Spring
NCR 508.  Communication and Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 500, 503 and 504. Emphasizes human communication
in context of conflict. Addresses challenges to effective communication
caused by interpersonal, intrapersonal, intergroup or intragroup conflict,
and role of communication in resolving such conflicts. Concentrates on
methods of communication most effective in dealing with differences.
Offered Fall
NCR 522.  Negotiation Tactics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: NCR 500, 503 and 504. Tactics used in negotiations among
individuals, institutions, and societies. Planning and conducting personal,
corporate, labor, hostage, and diplomatic negotiations. Cross-cultural,
ethical, and historical dimensions.
Offered Spring
NCR 525.  Mediation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 500, 503, 504, NCR 508, and NCR 522. Theory and
skills including requirements for certification under the California
Dispute Resolution Programs Act, especially agreement procedures,
case development, consensus building, issue framing and prioritizing,
orientations toward conflict, and record keeping.
Offered Spring
NCR 527.  Arbitration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Approval of program director. Compulsory and
noncompulsory arbitration of grievances in public, private, corporate,
labor, and international disputes. Case studies explore the arbitration role
in unique settings.
Offered Fall
NCR 529.  Conflict Res Internship.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites Requires approval of program director. Students will
work as interns in agencies in negotiation, conflict resolution and/
or peacebuilding, and will consult weekly with a faculty supervisor. A
total of 120 hours of agency internship experience will be required to
successfully complete the course. An internship for the Post-NCRP MA
Certificate may not be the same as the internship used by the student for
NCR 529 as part of the NCRP MA Degree Program.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 530.  Online Dispute Resolution.  (3 Units)  
Examines cases of health care providers who may find that they are
involved in disputes related to their profession. Considers potential
categories of legal conflict in the health caare industry from three
sources of conflict: providers, payers, and producers.
Offered Fall
NCR 531.  Marital & Family Mediation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Separation problems
in traditional and nontraditional relationships such as property division
and child custody. Legal, tax, and financial aspects. The mediation
process. Written and oral agreements.
Offered Fall
NCR 532.  Dispute Resolution Clinic.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Provides a forum
in which all students, staff, and faculty can creatively process and
resolve conflict rather than allowing hostilities to build toward violence or
adjudication. Each semester, conducts a basic mediation skills training
for campus and surrounding communities.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 533.  Labor Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Case and historical
studies in selected industries. Past, present, and pending court
decisions or national and state labor laws. Strategic planning for labor
organizations. The process of negotiating a labor contract. Grievance and
arbitration procedures.
Offered Fall
NCR 535.  Organizational Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Approval of program director. Origin and types of conflicts
which arise within and between complex organizations. Positive and
negative effects of Organizational conflict. Exploiting, preventing,
containing, escalating, and resolving conflict.
Offered Fall
NCR 536.  Dispute Resolution for Sports.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Approval of program director. Examines sports law and
dispute resolution utilizing particularly the processes of arbitration
and mediation. Focuses on players, owners, agents and unions, as well
as other areas of conflict such as free agency and player attitude and
disloyalty.
Offered Spring
NCR 537.  International NCRP.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Approval of program director. ?Study of selected
international conflicts involving complex issues such as culture, ethnicity,
politics and religion. Considers common misconceptions concerning
diplomacy. Encourages students to appreciate approaches to negotiation,
conflict resolution and peacebuilding as vehicles for successful
grassroots impact on peace efforts.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 285
NCR 538.  Sem: Public Policy Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 504, NCR 507, NCR 508, NCR 522, NCR 525 and
NCR 544. Considers constructive and timely approaches to resolving
conflicts arising over use, conservation, and restoration of environment,
natural resources, and public lands. Examines basic principles,
mechanisms and strategies for engaging federal agencies in effective
environmental conflict resolution and collaborative problem solving.
Offered Spring
NCR 540.  Sem: Community Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. The impact of
system dynamics on conflict management in communities from
neighborhoods to nations. Implications of system dynamics for
specifying goals and planning interventions to achieve them, from preemptive to corrective. Implications for training and organization.
Offered Fall
NCR 541.  Restorative Justice&Peacbldng.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Addresses respective
needs of crime victims and offenders ignored by criminal justice
system and international community. Retribution abandoned in favor of
restorative model based on needs of victims, offenders and community,
achieved through application of conflict resolution and peacebuilding
processes.
Offered Fall
NCR 542.  Collaborative Law.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Lawyers' and clients'
cooperative voluntary conflict resolution process. Emphasizes shared
belief that it is in best interest of parties to avoid adversarial proceedings.
Commitment to resolving differences with minimal conflict and working
together to create shared solutions to the issues.
Offered Spring
NCR 543.  Conflict Resolution in Schools.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Practical strategies
to teach students to be peacemakers to reduce violence in schools.
Discusses how schools can create cooperative learning environment
where students learn how to negotiate and mediate peer conflicts and
teachers use academic controversies to enhance learning.
Offered Fall
NCR 544.  ADR Processes.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: NCR 500, NCR 503 and NCR 504. Surveys a variety of
process choices in dispute resolution. Recognizing that litigation may
not be appropriate in many cases. Course examines alternatives such
as negotiation, mini-trial, mediation, panel evaluation, summary jury trial,
private judging, arbitration, and use of special masters.
Offered Spring
NCR 545.  Intercultural Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Presents overview
of intercultural communication negotiation and conflict resolution.
Emphasizes understanding of values of intercultural as well as
interreligious diversity in our increasingly interdependent world, nation
and local communities. Encourages awareness of cultural perspective
and socialization.
Offered Fall
NCR 546.  Conflict and the Media.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval program director. Examines the role of
mass media in conflict resolution and peacebuilding, and its influence on
world's most intractable conflicts as well as support of peace initiatives.
Considers how media can serve as part of the problem or part of the
solution.
Offered Infrequent
NCR 547.  Negotiation International Ethnic Conflict.  (3 Units)  
Examines basic considerations regarding negotiating ethnic conflict
that present a challenge to those involved in negotiation, conflict
resolution and peacebuilding. Explores relevance of negotiation theory to
improvement, mangement, and resolution of these disputes by studying
selected international conflicts.
Offered Fall, Spring
NCR 548.  Health Care Dispute Resolution.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: 6 units in LD Philosophy or department consent. An
introduction to philosophical methods, research and dialogue in order to
improve students' skills at writing and analysis. Topics to be covered will
address some central area or areas of philosophy and will vary from year
to year.
Offered Spring
NCR 549.  Critical Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
Considers the many and profound interconnections between conflict,
development and peace. Examines high levels of violent protracted
conflict and inexcusable and rising levels of poverty and inequality - two
phenomena that are often found together intermingling in complex ways.
Offered Fall
NCR 591.  Seminar: NCR Capstone Course.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: All required and elective courses. Course is designed to
enable students to demonstrate integration of knowledge of the field
and critical and independent thinking. Preparation and delivery (oral and
written) of culminating event under supervision of instructor. Faculty
approval of written portfolio and successful oral defense required for
graduation. CR grade insufficient by itself. CR/NC grading. Repeatable for
six units.
Offered Spring
NCR 594.  Independent Study.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of Department Chair. Independent study
undertaken under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeatable
course.
Offered As needed
NCR 595.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Requires approval of program director. Study of a current
topic in Negotiation, Conflict Resolution and Peacebuilding. Repeatable
for total of six units.
Offered Fall, Spring
NCR 597.  Directed Reading in Negotiation, Conflict Resolution and
Peacebuilding.  (3 Units)  
In consultation with a faculty member, completion of readings for
orientation to a little known topic; or as background for writing a thesis
proposal (the concept for which has previously been approved by the
NCR program director). CR/NC grading. Repeatable for a total of six units.
Offered Fall, Spring
NCR 598.  Directed Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Requires approval of program director. Conduct of pilot
studies, development of research instruments, or similar independent
research in preparation for the thesis, under the supervision of a
faculty member in any area of Negotiation, Conflict Resolution and
Peacebuilding. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
286 Nursing - Graduate (MSN)
NCR 599.  Thesis or Project.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Requires approval of program director. In consultation with
a faculty member, writing of a master's thesis in Negotiation, Conflict
Resolution and Peacebuilding that has previously been approved by
the NCR program director. Then, if thesis approved by faculty and oral
defense successful, three units replace NCR 591 as culminating event.
CR grade insufficient by itself. Choice of area requires prior approval of
NCR program director. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
NCR 600S.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not their
culminating event or who have other requirements remaining for the
completion of their degree, may maintain continuous attendance by
enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate program director required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Nursing - Graduate (MSN)
MSN 502.  Advanced Nursing Roles.  (3 Units)  
Introduces competencies and other foundational components of
advanced nursing practices such as history, roles, options and choices
that are associated with career development and professional practice.
Aspects of advanced practice include the impact upon various roles
of uses of technology, evidence-based decision making, organizational
leadership, systems change, collaboration and outcomes evaluation.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 513.  Healthcare Policy/Economics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Online course exploring
Healthcare Policy/Economics and public policy making at the state,
national and international levels as it relates to the current healthcare and
economic environment. Evidence-based strategies and policy models will
be introduced to apply the policy making process.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 514.  Health Promotion and Disease Prevention.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Examines traditional and
alternative theoretical and conceptual bases of wellness from the
perspective of nursing and health. Focuses on assessment, diagnosis,
intervention and outcome evaluation of wellness and disease prevention
needs and issues encountered in advanced nursing roles.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 521.  Advanced Health Assessment.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Co-requisite: MSN 522 is
required. Examines theoretical knowledge to perform a comprehensive
health history and advanced health assessment. Analysis and synthesis
of subjective and objective data to identify health problems an develop
management plans. Health promotion risk factor identification and
recognition of common abnormalities explored.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 522.  Advanced Health Assessment Lab.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Co-requisite: MSN 521 is
required. Application of advanced physical assessment skills and
knowledge necessary to perform a comprehensive health assessment.
Hands-on supervised skills workshop integrates systematic assessment
principles, appropriate health assessment techniques, guidelines and
considerations for patients across the lifespan.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 523.  Family Assessment: Theory and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN core courses; MSN 526, 527 and 528 can be taken
concurrently with instructor permission; Corequisite: MSN 541 for PC
Role Option Students only. Focuses on the theoretical underpinnings
specific to the biopsychosocial and developmental aspects of the
family during the childbearing and child rearing years. Examines the
conceptual basis of advanced practice nursing within the context of
family assessment, interventions and strategies. Places emphasis on the
family unit within a culturally diverse environment.
Offered Fall
MSN 526.  Pharmacology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 502 is recommended or permission of Director.
Examines theoretical basis for pharmacological treatment of common
health problems. Discusses selected classification of drugs with
emphasis on pharmacokinetic principles, pathophysiological basis for
therapeutic use, adverse effects, drug interactions, contraindications for
use, patient education and issue of compliance.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 528.  Advanced Pathophysiology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Upper-division undergraduate Pathophysiology course.
Focuses on application of advanced knowledge of the complex
physiological functions and pathophysiological processes related to the
care of individuals with health care problems. Discusses alterations in
function, and adaptive, integrative and regulatory mechanisms at the
molecular, cellular, organ and system levels.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 529.  Nurse Educator: Curriculum and Teaching.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 559 is recommended. Prepares
the student for the nursing role of educator in a variety of academic and
community settings. Analyzes and synthesizes curriculum development
and teaching/learning strategies. Develops curriculum and teaching
strategies using current nursing and education theory and research
designed to meet the needs of diverse learners.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 530.  Research Utilization in Advanced Nursing Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Prepares the nurse to critique
and apply research findings in nursing practice. Critical thinking is related
to problem identification, assessment of data, and outcome evaluation.
Research methodologies, including qualitative and quantitative
approaches, are examined and related to nursing informatics.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSN 531.  Nursing Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Examines the theoretical
and conceptual bases of ethics from a nursing perspective, including
the moral development of nurses. Focuses on analysis, synthesis
and resolution of ethical issues encountered in advanced practice
nursing. Uses critical thinking to explore ethical relationships involved in
delivering health care to diverse populations.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 532.  Nurse Administrator: Societal Institutions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 560 is recommended. Examines
the advanced role of the nurse administrator within the context of health
care organizations, scientific enterprises, government and industry.
Investigates current developments in the health care delivery system,
including system management. Emphasizes the nurse administrator's
leadership in providing health care to diverse populations by diverse
providers within multi-level care settings.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 287
MSN 533.  Theoretical Aspects of Aging.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 502 is required. Corequisite: MSN 549 is required
for for CNS Adult-Gerontology Role Option students only. Provides
comprehensive information on the aging population. Covers normal and
abnormal aging changes. The components of Geriatric Syndromes are
identified. Learners explore clinical assessment tools, standards of care
and client outcomes, including palliative and end-of-life care.
Offered Spring
MSN 535.  Clinical Management and Differential Diagnosis of Adult Acute
Health Problems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 550 and MSN 547 are required. Co-requisite: MSN 548
is required. Focuses on clinical decision making in advance practice
nursing. Students will learn the application of critical thinking and clinical
judgment to differentiate diagnosis and management of common acute
care problems in the acute and critically ill adult patient.
Offered All terms, Spring
MSN 536.  Advanced Neonatal Nursing I.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 521, MSN 522, MSN 526, and MSN 528 are required.
Co-requisite: MSN 548 is recommended. Advanced nursing management
of well and ill neonates focusing on health promotion and maintenance.
Evidence-based strategies for anticipatory planning, screening, support of
development, and family-cantered care will be explored. Covers symptom
management and reviews common medications or the neonate.
Offered All terms, Spring
MSN 537.  Advanced Neonatal Nursing II.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 521, MSN 522 MSN 526 and MSN 528 are required.
Co-Requisite: MSN 548 is recommended. Advanced nursing management
of well and ill neonates focusing on health promotion and maintenance.
Evidence-based strategies for anticipatory planning, screening, support of
development, and family-centered care will be explored. Covers symptom
management and reviews common medications for the neonate.
Offered All terms, Fall
MSN 538.  Nurse Administrator: Resource Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 570 is recommended. Examines
the advanced role of the nurse administrator within the context of
resource management. Investigates current developments in health care
delivery, including financial management, labor relations, and human
resource management. Emphasizes leadership development within multilevel care settings.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSN 539.  Nurse Educator: Testing and Evaluation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 569 is recommended. Prepares
the student for the nursing role of educator in a variety of academic and
community settings. Analyzes and synthesizes testing and evaluation
strategies. Examines current topics and issues related to student
assessment and evaluation of learning outcomes using nursing and
education theory and research designed to meet the needs of diverse
learners.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSN 540.  Clinical Management of Acute Pediatric Health Problems.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 550 Emphasis on advanced practice nurse clinical
decision making for pediatric patients. Student will learn the application
of critical thinking and clinical judgment to develop differential diagnoses
and manage common problems in the acute and critically ill pediatric
patient.
Offered Fall
MSN 547.  Clinical Nurse Specialist Role Performance I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 502, MSN 513, MSN 514, MSN 521, MSN 522,
MSN 526, MSN 528, MSN 530 and MSN 531are required. 144 hour
practicum to apply theories for execution of CNS role in clinical settings
with a specialty/population focus. Under supervision, the student
is provided opportunities for role socialization, exploration of CNS
responsibilities, and development of novice competencies. CR/NC
grading only.
Offered Fall
MSN 548.  Clinical Nurse Specialist Role Performance II.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 550 and MSN 547 are required. MSN 513, MSN 514,
MSN 526 and MSN 531 are recommended. Corequisites: MSN 523 or
MSN 535 is required. This 144 Hour practicum requires the application of
evidence based practice and education principles in the clinical setting.
Students will focus on health problems commonly encountered in the
population of focus. CR/NC grading only.
Offered Spring
MSN 549.  Clinical Nurse Specialist Role Performance III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 547, MSN 548, and MSN 550 are required. This 144
hour practicum focuses on the CNS role in managing clinical outcomes.
Students will provide consultation and wellness services, explore clinical
concerns at the organizational level, and prepare for professional practice
as a CNS.
Offered Fall
MSN 550.  Theoretical Foundations of Clinical Nurse Specialist
Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 502, MSN 513, MSN 514, MSN 521, MSN 522,
MSN 526, MSN 528, MSN 530, and MSN 531 are required. Co-requisite:
MSN 547 is required. A conceptual basis of advanced nursing practice
for the Clinical Nurse Specialist (CNS) role is established. Students will
learn CNS practice models, family theories, leadership theories, decisionmaking models, organizational theories, change management, care
coordination and management of transitions care.
Offered All terms, Fall
MSN 554.  Applied Nursing Science VI.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisite: MSN 553 is required. Focuses on providing evidence-based,
culturally competent nursing care for children and their families. Requires
96 hours of supervised practice in skills lab, and pediatric and community
clinical settings.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 555.  Quality Improvemnt in Hea Care.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502 is recommended. Explores the historical evolution
of quality initiatives in health care and defines current concepts in quality
assessment and improvement. Emphasizes organizational performance,
outcomes assessment, management and effectiveness, and the role of
the advanced practice nurse.
Offered Fall, Spring
MSN 556.  Primary Care of the Family I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 526, MSN 527 or permission of Director. Concurrent
enrollment in MSN 558 is recommended. Examines theoretical basis for
pharmacological treatment of common health problems. Emphasis will
be placed on comprehensive assessment and management of common
acute health problems seen in the care of clients across the life span.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
288 Nursing - Graduate (MSN)
MSN 558.  FNP: Role Perform I.  (3 Units)  
Corequisite: MSN 556 is recommended. Emphasizes comprehensive
assessment and management of common acute health problems seen in
the primary care of clients across the life span. Focuses on the primary
care of the individual as a member of the family within a culturally diverse
environment. Requires 144 hours of clinical practice under supervision by
a faculty instructor and an individual preceptor. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall
MSN 559.  Nurse Educator: Role Performance I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502. Corequisite: MSN 529 is recommended. Provides
the opportunity for implementing the nurse educator role in an education
or health care setting. Applies curriculum development and didactic and
clinical teaching/learning concepts and strategies, under supervision by
the instructor and a preceptor. Requires 144 hours of practice in teaching.
CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 560.  Nurse Administrator: Role Performance I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 532 is recommended. Provides
the opportunity to implement the nurse administrator role in a selected
health care setting by focusing on forces shaping the role of the
departmental nurse leader and institutional governance. Applies valid and
reliable measures of evaluation to organizational and nurse administrator
performance, under supervision by the instructor and a preceptor.
Requires 144 hours of practice in administration. CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 561.  Primary Care of the Family II: Pediatric Health.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 556 and MSN 558 are required. Co-requisites:
MSN 568 or MSN 548 is required. Theoretical and conceptual basis
for advanced practice nurses focusing on children, newborn through
adolescence. Emphasis on assessment, diagnosis, and management
of common age-related wellness and acute health conditions seen in
pediatric settings. Culturally sensitive health promotion and maintenance
of children.
Offered All terms, Spring
MSN 562.  Primary Care of the Family II: Women's/Gender Health.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 556 and MSN 558 are required. Co-requisite: MSN 568
is required. Theoretical and conceptual basis for advanced practice
nursing diagnosis and management of common and acute gender-related
health conditions. Male and female reproductive health, pregnancy,
contraception, infertility, menopause and sexuality will be explored,
including culturally sensitive health promotion and maintenance.
Offered All terms, Spring
MSN 565.  Pathopharmacology for Nurse Educators.  (3 Units)  
Integrates advanced pathophysiology with pharmacotherapeutics for
nurse educators, enhancing knowledge and skills of pharmacodynamics
and pharmacokinetics as they relate to pathophysiological processes in
each body system.
Offered Fall
MSN 568.  Family Nurse Practitioner: Role Performance II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 556 and MSN 558. Corequisite: MSN 566 is
recommended. Emphasizes comprehensive assessment and
management of common acute health problems seen in women and
children. Focuses on the primary care of the individual as a member of
the family within a culturally diverse environment. Includes reproduction,
pregnancy, contraception, growth and development, as well as health
promotion and health maintenance for women and children. Requires 144
hours of clinical practice under supervision by a faculty instructor and
individual preceptor. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSN 569.  Nurse Educator: Role Performance II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 539 is recommended. Provides
the opportunity for implementing the nurse educator role in an education
or health care setting. Applies assessment and evaluation concepts and
strategies in didactic and clinical teaching/learning situations, under
supervision by the instructor and a preceptor. Requires 144 hours of
practice in teaching. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSN 570.  Nurse Administrator: Role Performance II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 502; Corequisite: MSN 538 is recommended.
Provides the opportunity to implement the nurse administrator role in
a selected health care setting according to professional and regulatory
requirements. Focuses on formulating a nursing service plan for
integrating quality measures with cost control and case management
practice, under supervision by the instructor and a preceptor. Requires
144 hours of practice in administration. CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 576.  Primary Care of the Family III.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 566, MSN 567 or permission of Director. Corequisite:
MSN 578 is recommended. Examines theoretical and conceptual basis
for advanced practice as Family Nurse Practitioner. Emphasis is on
comprehensive assessment and management of increasingly complex
acute and chronic health problems across the life span for culturally
diverse individuals and families.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
MSN 578.  Family Nurse Practitioner: Role Performance III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 566 and MSN 568. Corequisite: MSN 576 is
recommended. Emphasizes growth in independent practice in providing
comprehensive assessment and management of common chronic health
problems seen in the primary care of clients across the life span. Focuses
on the primary care of the individual as a member of the family within a
culturally diverse environment. Requires 144 hours of clinical practice
under supervision by a faculty instructor and an individual preceptor. CR/
NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
MSN 583.  Clinical Nurse Leader Role Performance II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MSN 580 and MSN 581 are required. Co-requisite: MSN
582 is required. Restricted to majors. Focuses on implementation of the
CNL role in a selected healthcare microsystem. In this 150 hour clinical
experience, the student will develop expertise in clinical leadership with
a focus on aggregates. With guidance from a nurse preceptor, students
will implement strategies to address identified problems requiring quality
improvement, risk reduction and patient safety management. CR/NC
grading.
Offered All terms, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 289
MSN 588.  Family Nurse Practitioner: Role Performance IV.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MSN 576 and MSN 578. Provides an opportunity
to integrate evidence based research into clinical evaluation and
implementation of primary health care of clients across the life
span. Emphasizes evaluation of the impact of community, cultural,
socioeconomic, and psychosocial factors on the health care needs of
individuals and families within a culturally diverse environment. Requires
144 hours of clinical practice under supervision by a faculty instructor
and individual preceptor. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
MSN 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
A course of study designed cooperatively by student and instructor,
and approved by the Director, to accomplish individualized learning
objectives that are appropriate to the role of the professional nurse.
(Students should contact their advisor prior to enrolling to determine the
appropriateness of this course for degree completion.)
Offered As needed
MSN 595.  Special Topics/Colloquia.  (1-3 Units)  
This course offers student groups an opportunity to explore a topic of
current interest to the nursing profession with colleagues, faculty and
special guest speakers.
Offered As needed
MSN 600.  Project Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Students who have not completed their culminating experience by the
end of the term may enroll in the following term to maintain continuous
enrollment.
Offered Fall, Spring
Nursing - Undergraduate (BSN)
BSN 302.  Concepts of Professional Nursing Practice.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on concepts essential to the baccalaureate prepared nurse for
socialization into the full professional role. Incorporates The Essentials
of Educated Baccalaureate Education for Professional Nursing Practice
(2008). Content areas include returning to school and role development,
historical nursing influences, nursing theory, ethical practice, quality
practice, accountability and professional nursing issues/trends.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 306.  Cult Diversity Healthcare.  (3 Units)  
Applies cultural concepts and models to explore various forms of human
diversity. Analyzes how cultural diversity affects health beliefs, health
care behaviors, and health/illness dynamics. Discusses ethnocentrism
and bias and their impact on health care. Helps to build cultural
competence and improve health care delivery.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 346.  Human Pathophysiology.  (3 Units)  
Recommended Prerequisite: BSN 302. Explores the response of the
human body to various disease processes. Examines the rationale
behind diagnosis and treatment of illness and injury. Contrasts the
environmental and genetic components that contribute to health/illness.
Emphasizes research advances in genetics and biomedical sciences,
especially related to HIV/AIDS and quality of life.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 381.  Hlth Assess Skills Seminar.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: BSN 346 is recommended. Provides the opportunity for
application of basic knowledge and the practice of skills related to
performing a complete nursing health assessment of pediatric, adult, and
geriatric patients. Requires 16 hours of practice in a clinical laboratory.
CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 382.  Health Assessment.  (2 Units)  
Recommended Prerequisite: BSN 346. Recommended Co-requisite:
BSN 381. Students examine the theoretical knowledge and psycho-motor
skills necessary to perform a comprehensive health history and physical
examination on the pediatric, adult, and geriatric patient.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 422.  Community-Based Nursing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: BSN 302, BSN 346,BSN 381, and BSN 400 or concurrent
enrollment are required. Co-requisite: BSN 423 is recommended. Explores
dimensions of community-based nursing from individual/family health
to community's overall health levels. Explores nursing scopes and
responsibilities in healthy promotion and education, disease prevention,
and risk reduction. Examines how epidemiological and evidence-based
practice principles may be applied in order to assess, plan, implement,
and evaluate community-based nursing interventions.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 423.  Community-Based Nursing Role Performance.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: BSN 302, BSN 346, BSN 381, BSN 400 and BSN 422
(or concurrent enrollment) are required. Provides an opportunity for
application of the knowledge and the skills of the community-based
nurse in a community setting. Requires 90 hours of clinical practice with
a preceptor for the Public Health Nurse Certificate.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 452.  Management and Leadership in Health Care Systems.  (3
Units)  
Required Prerequisite: BSN 302. Recommended Prerequisite: BSN 460.
Introduces concepts of leadership, management, advocacy and roles
of the professional nurse in relation to career planning, organizational
and system-wide change. Topics include professionalism, ethics, power,
quality, safety, inter-professional collaboration, change, group dynamics,
finance, technology, and strategic planning.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 460.  Nursing Research Utilization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BSN 405 may be taken concurrently. Examines scientific
clinical nursing rationale for research utilization and theory-based
practice. Presents concepts of research methods and processes.
Analyzes relevant nursing problems for clinical effective practice.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
A course of study designed cooperatively by student and instructor, and
approved by the Program Director, to accomplish individualized learning
objectives that are appropriate to the role of the professional nurse.
(Students should contact their advisor prior to enrolling to determine the
appropriateness of this course for degree completion.)
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
BSN 495.  Special Topics/Colloquia.  (1-3 Units)  
Theses courses offer student groups an opportunity to explore a topic
of current interest to the nursing profession with colleagues, faculty and
special guest speakers.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
290 Occupational Therapy (OTR)
Occupational Therapy (OTR)
OTR 205.  OT Act Across the Life Span.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 206.  Human Growth and Development.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 295.  Spec Top in Occup. Therapy.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 301A.  Individual & Group Skills.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 314.  Conditions of Human Dysfunc..  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 317L.  Neuroanatomy & Physiology Lab.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 319A.  Evaluation & Interpretation.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 320A.  Theory & Application I.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 410.  Introduction to the Scope of Practice and Conceptual
Foundations of Occupational Therapy.  (2 Units)  
Overview of the complex scope, philosophical foundation, history,
practice areas, professional and ethical roles and responsibilities, models
of practice, service deliver, professional development, and career growth
in occupational therapy. Also explores client populations across the
lifespan in various practice settings.
Offered Spring, Summer
OTR 414.  Human Dysfunction II.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 422A.  Theory & Application II.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 424A.  Theory & Application III.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 430S.  Practicum & Seminar I.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 432S.  Practicum & Seminar II.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
OTR 480S.  Field Work II Experience I.  (0 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 482S.  Field Work II Experience II.  (0 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 495.  Special Topics in Occupational Therapy.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and additional course prerequisites
depending on topic. Special interest topics related to Occupational
Therapy. Content will vary as announced. Repeatable course.
Offered All terms, As needed
OTR 500.  Person-Environment-Occupation.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510, and
OTR 512. Emphasizes the importance of occupational engagement to
health and the relationship that exists between individuals, occupations
and environments. Students will be challenged to explore the personenvironment-occupation model centered on persons and the occupations
they fulfill within their everyday environment.
Offered Spring
OTR 502.  History of Occupation.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510, and
OTR 512. A historical survey of the development of the profession and
the study of the occupational nature of human beings. Review of how
leaders of the profession have articulated occupation and the therapeutic
applications across time.
Offered Spring
OTR 504.  Activities Across the Lifespan.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510, and
OTR 512. Introduction to how activities used as meaningful occupations
can be used as therapeutic interventions. Individual and group experience
with media and how to identify, analyze and adapt activities for their
potential as treatment modalities is emphasized.
Offered Spring
OTR 506.  Interactive Reasoning.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 508, OTR 510, and
OTR 512. Introduction to the historical, theoretical underpinnings and
application of group work to populations spanning the lifespan.
Offered Spring
OTR 508.  Professional Development Seminar - Portfolio I: Introduction to
E-Portfolio.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 510, and
OTR 512 are requird.Introduces process of professional portfolio
development; orients students to the steps toward portfolio completion;
introduces critical thinking and reflective learning methods; provides
students with experiences in self-directed learning; reviews the
development of a research proposal in planning research.
Offered Spring
OTR 510.  Introduction to Frameworks for Occupational Therapy
Practice.  (2 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 512
Introduction to fundamental theoretical concepts of occupational therapy
practice; philosophy; terminology; professional roles delineation; ethics;
scope and models of practice.
Offered Spring
OTR 512.  Human Anatomy.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510 or
Admission to OTD program. Advanced study of human body by means of
review of Web based materials specific to dissection and identification of
select specimens and structures of the body.
Offered Spring
OTR 515.  Occupation Across the Lifespan I: Adolescence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512. Co-requisites: OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, and OTR 530. Explores development of activity
patterns associated with adolescent occupational choice, roles, routines,
habit formation and attributed meaning. Focus is on adolescent
development and life transition.
Offered Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 291
OTR 517.  Assessments in Occupational Therapy Practice:
Adolescence.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
and OTR 512 or OTD student group. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 519,
OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525, OTR 527, OTR 529, and OTR 530. Focuses
on OT clinical evaluation with the adolescent population. Students
will develop clinical reasoning and skill to select and administer
standardized and non-standardized interview, observational, self-report
and assessment tools in the processes of referral, screening, evaluation
and documentation.
Offered Summer
OTR 519.  Interventions in Occupational Therapy Practice -
Adolescence.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512 or OTD student group.Focus on OT clinical interventions with
the adolescent population. Students will develop clinical reasoning and
skill in treatment planning, implementation, reviewing progress, discharge
planning and documentation.
Offered Summer
OTR 521.  Conditions Affecting Health I - Adolescents.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530. Theoretical approaches and models of
practice commonly used with this population will be discussed in
association with conditions that affect adolescents' ability to engage in
meaningful occupations common to this development level.
Offered Summer
OTR 523.  Case Seminar I - Adolescent.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512, Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530. Seminar format to provide opportunities for
students to hear first-hand occupational profiles and personal narratives
of adolescents and their families as they are engaged in discussions of
issues relative to problems in domains of occupational engagement.
Offered Summer
OTR 525.  OT Research I - Qualitative Research Methods for Health
Professionals.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
and OTR 512 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519,
OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 527, OTR 529, and OTR 530 are required. Explores
the role of qualitative research in developing a deeper understanding of
client populations and the development of theory in occupational therapy.
Research design, data collection strategies, and methods of analysis will
be discussed.
Offered Summer
OTR 527.  Foundations of Kinesiology for Occupational Therapy.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512 or OTD student group. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517,
OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525, OTR 529, OTR 530. The course
consists of lectures, activity analyses, and case studies designed to
provide students with diverse opportunities to integrate key concepts
of kinesiology into an understanding of how movement and loss of
movements may impact performance of complex, everyday occupations.
Offered Fall, Summer
OTR 529.  Fieldwork I Adolescents.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
OTR 512. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523,
OTR 525, OTR 527, OTR 530. Fieldwork offers on-site clinical experiences
with populations commonly served in OT practice settings for adolescent.
Clinical experiences support co-requisite coursework and will rely on first
semester course materials.
Offered Summer
OTR 530.  Professional Development Seminar - Portfolio II: Ethics.  (1
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 500, OTR 502, OTR 504, OTR 506, OTR 508, OTR 510,
and OTR 512 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519,
OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525, OTR 527, and OTR 529 are required.
Introduction to ethics theory and principles as applied to common
occupational therapy clinical situations and opportunities to analyze
and solve ethical dilemmas. Overview of legal principles that may impact
ethical decision-making.
Offered Summer
OTR 535.  Conditions Affecting Health I - Adolescents.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530. Co-requisites: OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541,
OTR 543, OTR 547, OTR 550, OTR 552. Provides the theoretical
foundations and frames of reference to understand pediatric populations
and their family's occupations. Explores the developmental impact of
contexts, family, and child factors that promote or limit engagement in
occupations and co-occupations from infancy through school age.
Offered Fall
OTR 537.  Assessments in Occupational Therapy Practice: Pediatrics.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530 or OTD Student Group. Co-requisites:
OTR 535, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547, OTR 550, OTR 552 or
OTD Student Group. Focuses on OT clinical evaluation with the pediatric
population. Students will develop clinical reasoning and skill to select and
administer standardized and non-standardized interview, observational,
self-report and assessment tools in the processes of referral, screening,
evaluation and documentation.
Offered Fall
OTR 539.  Interventions in Occupational Therapy Practice - Pediatrics.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530 or OTD Student Group. Focuses on OT
clinical interventions with the pediatric population. Students will develop
clinical reasoning and skill in treatment planning, implementation,
reviewing progress, discharge planning, and documentation.
Offered Fall
OTR 541.  Conditions Affecting Health II - Pediatrics.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, 530. Co-requisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539,
OTR 543, OTR 547, OTR 550, OTR 552. The application of knowledge
of at-risk and diagnostic conditions to the occupational performance
of children and their families. The role of genetics, body structures,
functions, and the environment in the presence of developmental issues
from conception through adolescence will be addressed.
Offered Fall
292 Occupational Therapy (OTR)
OTR 543.  Case Seminar II Pediatrics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, OTR 530. Co-requisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539,
OTR 541, OTR 547, OTR 550, OTR 552. Seminar provides opportunities
for students to hear first-hand from families and children with special
needs and discuss issues relative to diagnosis, occupational therapy
assessment and interventions, service delivery, as well as the contexts in
which children and their families participate.
Offered Fall
OTR 545.  OT Research II - Quantitative Research Methods for Health
Professions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 552,
OTR 547, and OTR 550 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 553, OTR 555,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561, OTR 563, and OTR 571 are required. A
review of clinical research methodology and designs with emphasis on
interpreting and utilizing research results and the impact of research on
evidence-based practice in occupational therapy. Students will develop
feasible research proposals related to occupational therapy practice.
Offered Spring
OTR 547.  Neurological Foundations of Oc.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, and OTR 530 or OTD student group. Co-requisites:
OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 550, and OTR 552.
Foundational knowledge of how the human nervous system serves as
the foundation for occupational choice and occupational engagement.
Designed to provide opportunities to learn the structures and functional
organization of the nervous system related to the performance of
everyday occupations.
Offered Fall, Spring
OTR 550.  Level I Fieldwork - Pediatrics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, and OTR 530. Co-requisites: OTR 535, OTR 537,
OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547, and OTR 552. Fieldwork offers
on-site clinical experiences with populations commonly served in OT
practice settings with infants and toddlers. Clinical experiences support
co-requisite coursework and will rely on first semester course materials.
Offered Fall
OTR 552.  Professional Development Seminar - Portfolio III: Qualitative
Research Project.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 515, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 521, OTR 523, OTR 525,
OTR 527, OTR 529, and 530 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 535, OTR 537,
OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547, and OTR 550 are required.
Independent and self-reflective learning fundamental to competent
practice. Students mentored in completion of portfolio process including
the development and approval of the learning contract, the role of a
proposal in guiding activities, and selection of activities for the portfolio.
Offered Fall
OTR 553.  Professional Development Seminar - Portfolio IV: EvidenceBased Practice in Occupational Therapy.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 545, OTR 555,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561, OTR 563 and OTR 571 are required. Portfolio
IV links student interests with coursework and the understanding of the
concept of Evidence-Based Rehabilitation as applied to occupational
therapy practice. Simultaneously, the student is mentored through
planned learning activities and the development of an evidence-based
research paper.
Offered Spring
OTR 554.  Professional Development Seminar - Portfolio V: Quantitative
Research Project.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 553, OTR 545, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563, and OTR 571 are required; Co-requisites: OTR 567, OTR 569,
OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 581, OTR 583 and OTR 591 are required.
Portfolio V involves completion of a quantitative research project as part
of the professional development portfolio. The course also provides an
opportunity to present written and oral summary of completed portfolio
activities and research papers to faculty and students.
Offered Summer
OTR 555.  Occupation Across the Lifespan III - Adult.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552. Co-requisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 557,
OTR 559, OTR 561, OTR 563 and OTR 571. Provides the theoretical
foundations and frames of reference to understand adult populations and
their families occupations. Explores the impact of contexts, family, and
other factors that promote or limit engagement in occupations and cooccupations of adult populations.
Offered Spring
OTR 557.  Assessments in Occupational Therapy Practice: Adult.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543,
OTR 547, OTR 550, and OTR 552 or OTD student group. Co-requisites:
OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 559, OTR 561, OTR 563 and OTR 571.
Development of skills of assessment and evaluation of occupational
performance in the context of current frames of reference, and the
exploration of the impact that physical and psychosocial dysfunction can
have on performance roles, tasks, and activities of adulthood.
Offered Spring
OTR 559.  Interventions in Occupational Therapy Practice: Adult.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552 or OTD student group. Co-requisites: OTR 545,
OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 561, OTR 563 and OTR 571. Focuses on
OT clinical interventions with the adult population. Students will develop
clinical reasoning and skill in treatment planning, implementation,
reviewing progress, discharge planning and documentation.
Offered Spring
OTR 561.  Conditions Affecting Health III - Adults.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552. Co-requisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 563 and OTR 571. A professional course that
focuses on common occupational performance dysfunctions secondary
to medical, biophysical, and psychosocial conditions in adults 18-55
years old.
Offered Spring
OTR 563.  Case Seminar III Adult.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552. Co-requisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561 and OTR 571. Seminar format to provide
opportunities for students to hear first-hand the life stories of adults
living with disabilities acquired through illness, disability or trauma.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 293
OTR 567.  Administration & Management in Occupational Therapy.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 569 OTR 575,
OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 581, OTR 583, OTR 591. Presentation and
discussion of current concepts and trends in the administration and
management in occupational therapy practice. Challenges students to
explore the various facets of occupational therapy management in a
constantly changing health care environment.
Offered Summer
OTR 569.  Adaptive & Assistive Tech.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 575,
OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 581, OTR 583, OTR 591. RESNA technology
competencies for occupational therapists, state and federal laws
effecting availability or acquisition of assistive technology, assessments
used in evaluation for technology prescription, seating and wheelchair
measurements, computer input devices, augmentative communication,
environmental controls, use of universal design.
Offered Summer
OTR 571.  Level I Fieldwork - Adults.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 535, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 541, OTR 543, OTR 547,
OTR 550, and OTR 552. Co-requisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561 and OTR 563. Offers on-site clinical
experiences with populations commonly served in OT practice settings
with adult clients. Clinical experiences support co-requisite coursework
and will rely on first semester course materials.
Offered Spring
OTR 575.  Occupation Across the Lifespan IV - Geriatrics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569,
OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 581, OTR 583, and OTR 591. Focused on
theoretical foundations of occupational therapy used in working with the
geriatric population. Explores the value and meaning of occupation to the
health and well being of elderly and frail elderly adults within cultural and
temporal contexts.
Offered Summer
OTR 577.  Assessments in Occupational Therapy Practice: Geriatrics.  (1
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571 or OTD student group. Co-requisites: OTR 554,
OTR 567, 569, OTR 575, OTR 579, OTR 581, OTR 583, and OTR 591.
Focuses on OT clinical evaluation with the geriatric population. Students
will develop clinical reasoning and skill to select and administer
standardized and non-standardized interview, observational, self-report
and assessment tools in the processes of referral, screening, evaluation
and documentation.
Offered Summer
OTR 579.  Interventions in Occupational Therapy Practice: Geriactrics.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559,
OTR 561, OTR 563 and OTR 571 or OTD Student Group. Co-requisites:
OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569, OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 581, OTR 583,
and OTR 591. Focuses on OT clinical interventions with the geriatric
population. Students will develop clinical reasoning and skill in treatment
planning, implementation, reviewing progress, discharge planning and
documentation.
Offered Summer
OTR 581.  Conditions Affecting Health IV - Geriatrics.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569,
OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 583, and OTR 591. A professional
course focused on common occupational performance dysfunctions
secondary to medical, biophysical, and psychosocial conditions in the
elderly and frail elderly adult (older than 55 and 85 years respectively).
Offered Summer
OTR 583.  Case Seminar IV Geriatrics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569,
OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 583, and OTR 591. Life narratives of
elders and frail elders and their family members will be facilitated to
engage in discussions on issues relative to their personal life situations,
occupational history and profile.
Offered Summer
OTR 591.  Level I Fieldwork - Geriatrics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 545, OTR 553, OTR 555, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 561,
OTR 563 and OTR 571. Co-requisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569,
OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 579, OTR 583, and OTR 591. Fieldwork offers
on-site clinical experiences with populations commonly served in OT
practice settings with elderly clients. Clinical experiences support corequisite coursework and will rely on first semester course materials.
Offered Summer
OTR 592.  Fieldwork II A.  (9 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 554, OTR 567, OTR 569, OTR 575, OTR 577, OTR 579,
OTR 581, OTR 583, OTR 591. Completion of 12 weeks or approximately
480 hours of supervised Fieldwork Level II practicum in a community or
clinical setting. Documentation of client evaluations, progress notes, and
reports as well as provision of resources and delivery of OT services will
be explored. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 593.  Fieldwork II B.  (9 Units)  
Prerequisite: OTR 592. Completion of 12 weeks or approximately 480
hours of supervised Fieldwork Level II practicum in a community or
clinical setting. Documentation of client evaluations, progress notes, and
reports as well as provision of resources and delivery of OT services will
be explored. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 595.  Advanced Special Topics in Occupational Therapy.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and possible course prerequisites
depending on topic. Advanced course of special interest in Occupational
Therapy. Topic and content will vary as announced. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
OTR 596.  Graduate Internship.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of one International FW I rotation in MSOT;
membership in ICOT; department chair approval. Supervised internship,
in the occupational therapy, with a participating agency or company
involved in international service-learning fieldwork experience. CR/NC
grade.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 599.  Graduate Capstone.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite; completion of at least the first three semesters of the
7 semester MSOT program. Supervised thesis, special project, or
comprehensive examination in occupational therapy. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
294 Occupational Therapy (OTR)
OTR 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students in MSOT who have other requirements remaining
for the completion of their degree or who have completed their course
work but not their fieldwork and/or comprehensive exam may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of MSOT
program director required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OTR 701.  The Historical Analysis of Occupational Therapy Profession.  (2
Units)  
Analysis of OT history, sociopolitical climate and its importance in
meeting society's current and future needs. Introduction to OT practice
philosophical base, terminologies, scope of practice, professional roles
and associations, certification/licensure, regulation, and accreditation
as a baseline for professional development. Admission to Occupational
Therapy Doctorate required.
Offered Summer
OTR 713.  OT Frameworks and Models of Practice.  (2 Units)  
Corequisites: OTR 512, OTR 701, OTR 714, OTR 715, and OTR 719 are
required. Introduction to the OT Practice Framework and fundamental
concepts of OT practice. Analysis of the development and application of
theories, models of practice, and frames of reference in achieving desired
intervention outcomes in a variety of practice contexts and environments.
Offered Summer
OTR 714.  Introduction to Population Health.  (2 Units)  
Corequisites: OTR 512, OTR 701, OTR 713, OTR 715 and OTR 719 are
required. Introduction to the social determinants of health as well
as health promotion and disease prevention at the community and
global levels. Explores impact of sociocultural, socioeconomic, political,
demographic, diversity factors, lifestyle choices, and epidemiological
factors to public health and welfare of populations. Restricted to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 715.  OTD Research Portfolio 1 Introduction to Research Portfolio:
Literature Review.  (1 Units)  
Corequisites: OTR 512, OTR 701, OTR 713, OTR 714, and OTR 719
are required. Introduction to an individual e-portfolio focused on
the completion of high quality research projects that contribute to
occupational therapy practice. As the first of five courses, the focus is to
review literature as a foundation to developing research questions and
research proposals in succeeding courses.
Offered Summer
OTR 719.  Therapeutic Activities and Group Dynamics Across the
Lifespan.  (3 Units)  
Corequisites: OTR 512, OTR 701, OTR 713, OTR 714, and OTR 715 are
required. Introduction to how activities, as meaningful occupations,
are used as interventions in OT practice. Identify, analyze, and adapt
activities using various media in both individual and group therapeutic
experiences. Discuss the historical and theoretical underpinnings of arts
& crafts as a treatment.
Offered Summer
OTR 722.  Clinical Fieldwork I in a Pediatric Setting.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 512, OTR 701, OTR 713, OTR 714, OTR 715, and
OTR 719 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780,
OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. On-site and/
or simulated clinical experience with infants and/or children. Parallels
with didactic course content to bridge classroom learning with clinical
practice through observations of the OT process, such as screening,
evaluation, intervention, re-evaluation, discharge planning and application
of OT theories. Restricted to majors
Offered Fall
OTR 723.  Clinical Reasoning in Occupational Therapy: Pediatric
Conditions and Case Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 713, OTR 714, OTR 715, OTR 719 and OTR 701 are
required. Co-requisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 538,
OTR 722, AND OTR 724 are required. Case analysis using simulated
and first-hand narratives of children and their families. Examine effects
of various developmental, physical and/or psychosocial conditions
commonly seen in pediatric populations and employ clinical reasoning
skills in identifying and addressing OT needs within varying service
delivery models. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
OTR 724.  Person, Environment, Occupation and Health Promotion in
Pediatric Populations.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 512, OTR 713, OTR 714, OTR 715, OTR 719, and
OTR 701 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780,
OTR 537, OTR 530, OTR 722, and OTR 723 are required. Explore the values
and meanings of occupations, within varying environmental contexts to
the health and wellness of infants, toddlers and children. Review service
delivery models, policy issues, social systems, related to both traditional
and emerging ares of practice for the pediatric population.
Offered Fall
OTR 725.  OTR Research Portfolio 2 - Methodologies in Quantitative
Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 512, OTR 713, OTR 714, OTR 715, OTR 719 and
OTR . Co-requisites: OTR 572, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Comparison of quantitative research
methodologies. Students will select appropriate methods and design
a scholarly proposal aligned with the ethical policies and procedures
necessary to conduct human-subject research. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
OTR 732.  Clinical Fieldwork I in an Adult Setting.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Co-requisites: OTR 547, OTR 735,
OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 733, and OTR 734 are required. Onsite and/or simulated clinical experience with adolescents. Parallels
with didactic course content to bridge classroom learning with clinical
practice through observations of the OT process such as screening,
evaluation, intervention, re-evaluation, discharge planning and application
of OT theories.
Offered Spring
OTR 733.  Clinical Reasoning in Occupational Therapy: Adult Conditions &
Case Analyses.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Corequisites: OTR 547, OTR 547,
OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732, abnd OTR 734 are required. Case
analyses using simulated and first-hand personal narratives of adults
and/or family members. Examine effects of various physical and/or
psychosocial conditions commonly seen in adult populations and employ
clinical reasoning skills in identifying and addressing OT needs within
varying service delivery models. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 295
OTR 734.  Person, Environment, Occupation, and Health Promotion in
Adult Populations.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 527,OTR 725, ITR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Corequisites: OTR 547, OTR 736,
OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732, and OTR 733 are required. Explore
the values and meanings of occupations within varying environmental
contexts to the health and wellness of adults. Review service delivery
models, policy issues, social systems, related to both traditional and
emerging areas of practice for the adult population. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
OTR 735.  OTD Research Portfolio 3 - Quantitative Research Project.  (2
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Corequisites: OTR 547, OTR 781,
OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732, OTR 733, and OTR 734 are required.
Completion of a scholarly quantitative research report that supports
clinical practice. Students are encouraged to submit for professional or
public audience presentation or publication. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
OTR 742.  Clinical Fieldwork I in and Adolescent Setting.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 547, OTR 735, OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732,
OTR 733 and OTR 734 are required. Corequisites: OTR 745, OTR 782,
OTR 790, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 743, and OTR 744 are required. Onsite and/or simulated clinical experience with adolescents. Parallels
with didactic course content to bridge classroom learning with clinical
practice through observations of the OT process such as screening,
evaluation, intervention, re-evaluation, discharge planning and application
of OT theories. Restricted to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 743.  Clinical Reasoning in Occupational Therapy: Adolescent
Conditions and Case Analyses.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 547, OTR 735, OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732,
OTR 733 and OTR 734 are required.Corequisites: OTR 745, OTR 782,
OTR 790, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 742, and OTR 744 are required.
Case analyses using simulated and first-hand personal narratives
of adolescents and/or family members. Examine effects of various
developmental, physical and/or psychosocial conditions commonly
seen in adolescent populations and employ clinical reasoning skills
in identifying and addressing OT needs within varying service delivery
models. Restricted to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 744.  Person, Environment, Occupation and Health Promotion in
Adolescent Populations.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 547, OTR 735, OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 599, OTR, 732,
OTR 733 and OTR 734 are required.Corequisites: OTR 745, OTR 782,
OTR 790, OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 742, and OTR 742 are required. Explore
the values and meanings of occupations within varying environmental
contexts to the health and wellness of adolescents. Review service
delivery models, policy issues, social systems, related to both traditional
and emerging areas of practice for the adolescent population. Restricted
to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 745.  OTD Research Portfolio 4 - Methodologies in Qualitative
Research.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 547, OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732, OTR 733
and OTR 734 are required. Corequisites: OTR 781, OTR 790, OTR 517,
OTR 519, OTR 742, OTR 743 and OTR 744 are required. Comparison of
qualitative research methodologies. Students will select appropriated
methods and design a scholarly proposal aligned with the ethical
policies and procedures necessary to conduct human-subject research.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 753.  Clinical Reasoning in Occupational Therapy: Geriatric
Conditions & Case Analyses.  (3 Units)  
Case analyses using simulated and first-hand personal narratives of
older adults, family members or caregivers. Examines effects of various
physical and/or psychosocial conditions commonly seen in geriatric
populations and employ clinical reasoning skills in identifying and
addressing OT needs within varying delivery models.
Offered Fall
OTR 754.  Person, Environment, Occupation, and Health Promotion in
Geriatric Populations.  (2 Units)  
Explore the values and meanings of occupations within varying
environmental contexts to the health and wellness of older adults. Review
service delivery models, policy issues, and social systems, related to both
traditional and emerging areas of practice for the geriatric population.
Offered Fall
OTR 755.  OTD Research Portfolio 5: Qualitative Research Project.  (2
Units)  
Completion of a scholarly qualitative or mixed methods research report
that supports clinical practice. Submission for professional or public
audience presentation or for publication in a peer-reviewed journal is
required.
Offered Fall
OTR 780.  OT Professional Development Seminar: OT Code of Ethics.  (1
Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 512, OTR 713, OTR 714, OTR 715, OTR 719, and
OTR 701 are required. Corequisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 537,
OTR 539, OTR 722, OTR 723, and OTR 724 are required. Principles
and constructs of the American Occupational Therapy Association
(AOTA) Occupational Therapy Code of Ethics and AOTA Standards of
Practice. Analysis of ethical dilemmas and case study scenarios of
clinical situations, decision-making, professional interactions, client
interventions, employment settings, and personal and organizational
ethical conflicts. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
OTR 781.  OT Professional Development Seminar: The Reflective
Occupational Therapist.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 527, OTR 725, OTR 780, OTR 537, OTR 539, OTR 722,
and OTR 724 are required. Corequisites: OTR 547, OTR 735, OTR 557,
OTR 559, OTR 732, OTR 733, and OTR 734 are required. Apply the concept
of therapeutic use of self in the OT process with self-reflection on ones
personality, insights, perceptions, and judgements. Explore skills and
knowledge needed to promote inclusiveness, diversity, justice, equity,
sensitivity and responsiveness to societal and cultural differences in
practice. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
296 Operations Management (OMG)
OTR 782.  OT Professional Development Seminar: Effective
Communication and Team Dynamics.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: OTR 547, OTR 735, OTR 781, OTR 557, OTR 559, OTR 732
and OTR 733, and OTR 734 are required. Corequisites: OTR 745, OTR 790,
OTR 517, OTR 519, OTR 742, OTR 743, and OTR 744 are required.
Introduction to the principles of interprofessional team dynamics,
effective communication, and effective intraprofesional collaboration.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Summer
OTR 783.  OT Professional Development Seminar - Program Development
& Funding of OT Services.  (1 Units)  
Overview of important aspects and processes in developing programs
that address occupational therapy needs, including funding sources, such
as reimbursement systems and documentation as well as locating and
securing grants.
Offered Fall
OTR 784.  OT Professional Development Seminar: Administration and
Management.  (1 Units)  
Administration and management concepts and trends that influence
service delivery to patients, families, student, and others in community
and clinical settings, including supervision of personnel, quality
improvement methods, and oversight of credentialing and licensure
requirements consistent with federal and state laws.
Offered Fall
OTR 785.  OT Professional Development Seminar - Adaptive and
Assistive Technology and Devices.  (1 Units)  
Assessment, selection, fabrication, application, fitting and training
of adaptive and assistive technology and devices that enhance
occupational performance and foster participation and well-being of
persons experiencing limitations due to personal or environmental
barriers. Discuss state and federal laws affecting its availability or
acquisition.
Offered Fall
OTR 786.  OT Professional Development Seminar - Group
Interventions.  (1 Units)  
Historical, theoretical underpinnings and application of group work
to populations spanning the lifespan. Focus on group dynamics and
understanding human behavior in a variety of contexts to develop
appropriate selection, planning, facilitation of group interventions.
Offered Fall
OTR 787.  OT Professional Development Seminar-Ergonomics.  (1 Units)  
Specialized area of ergonomic evaluation and interventions for daily
activities at home and in work environments, including body mechanics,
work/rest cycles, application of traditional and alternative work
environments, application and use of commercially available ergonomic
equipment, and development of novel ergonomic applications.
OTR 788.  OT Professional Development seminar- Leadership and
Advocacy.  (1 Units)  
Discussion of personal and professional responsibilities as occupational
therapist, including ongoing professional development as well as
engagement in advocacy, systems and structures that create legislation,
and work in an academic setting.
OTR 789.  OT Professional Development Seminar: Business Aspects of
Practice.  (1 Units)  
Business aspects of occupational therapy practice, which include
the development of business plans, financial management, program
evaluation models, and strategic planning.
OTR 790.  OTD Capstone Portfolio 1 Needs Assessment: Identifying OT
Problem.  (1 Units)  
Introduction to an individual e-portfolio for the OTD Degree capstone. As
the first of five courses, the focus is to perform a needs assessment to
identify an OT problem as a baseline for the development of a research or
evidence-based capstone project in succeeding courses.
Offered Summer
OTR 791.  OTD Capstone Portfolio 2 - Evidence-based Practice:
Reviewing Best Intervention.  (1 Units)  
Evidence-based rehabilitation as applied to occupational therapy
practice. The student is mentored through the development of an
evidence-based program proposal for a potential capstone experience
placement site. A research project proposal may also be acceptable as
approved by the academic advisor.
Offered Fall
OTR 792.  OTD Capstone Portfolio 3 Capstone Experience.  (9 Units)  
A 14-week in-depth exposure to one or more of the following: clinical
practice skills, research skills, administration, leadership program and
policy development, advocacy, education, and theory development.
Fulfills the capstone experience requirement of the OTD degree.
Offered Fall
OTR 793.  OTD Capstone Portfolio 4 Capstone Project 1.  (3 Units)  
The first phase of the capstone project completion. The student
is mentored through (1) the selection of doctoral capstone project
committee, (2) development of a capstone project proposal for
committee review and approval, (3) facilitation of the research or
evidence-based program.
Offered Fall
OTR 797.  OTD Capstone Portfolio 5 Capstone Project 2.  (3 Units)  
Completion of the capstone project, which includes both a written report
and an oral presentation. Capstone committee approval required.
Offered Spring
Operations Management (OMG)
OMG 220.  Introduction to Transportation Management.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the alternative modes, systems, rates, services, and
regulations in global transport including ocean, air, and surface carriers
and systems.
Offered Fall
OMG 221.  Introduction to Business Statistics.  (3 Units)  
An introductory course covering fundamentals of modern statistical
methods. Topics include descriptive statistics, probability rules and
laws, the binomial and normal distributions, sampling and sampling
distributions, estimation, and hypothesis testing.
Offered Fall, Spring
OMG 225.  Introduction to Logistics Management.  (3 Units)  
Introductions to logistics concepts and systems, including Inventory
and Warehouse Management, Logistics Information Systems, Facility
Location, and Global Logistics.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 230.  Introduction to Supply Chain Management.  (3 Units)  
This course is an overview of the entire supply chain and its key
elements. It covers basic concepts and terminology used in demand
planning, inventory planning, material planning, distribution planning,
fulfillment planning, and related components of a supply chain.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 297
OMG 321.  Business Statistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131, MAT 132 or OMG 221 is required. Topics include
inferential statistics, analysis of variance, multiple regression, time series
forecasting and their application in business decision making process.
Excel and/or a statistical software will be used throughout the course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OMG 322.  Operations Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 321. Analysis of the management function in the
production area with emphasis on computer applications and practical
problem-solving. Includes international developments.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
OMG 420.  Global Transportation MGT.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OMG 220 and OMG 321 are required.This course provides
advanced study of alternative modes, systems, rates, and regulations in
global transport including ocean, air, and surface carriers. It also includes
analysis of problems concerning the distribution of consumer products,
including environmental, social, and political issues.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 423.  Quantitative Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CJA 341, OMG 321 or PUB 305 is required. Use of
deterministic, probabilistic methods to model and solve different types of
decision problems.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 425.  Logistics Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OMG 225 and OMG 321 are required. This course covers
advanced topics in managing of logistics systems including inventory
control, distribution network analysis, facility location analysis, and
storage of material and the warehousing finished goods.
Offered Fall, Spring
OMG 426.  Production Planning &Control.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 322. Techniques and systems for planning, scheduling,
and controlling production.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 427.  Business Process Improvement.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 321. Basic elements of business Process Improvement
are presented. Process Improvement related to wide areas of business
activities are discussed. This includes not only the process improvement
of manufactured products, but also various kinds of service activities
such as quality management of finance, accounting and marketing
departments of manufacturing companies as well as hospitals, airlines,
trucking companies, governments, schools, accounting and law firms.
Offered Fall
OMG 428.  Purchasing Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 322. Examines activities directed to securing the
materials, supplies, equipment and services required for the proper and
efficient functioning of a business, including related planning and policy
issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
OMG 429.  Service Operations MGT.  (3 Units)  
The course emphasis is on the design and operations of service delivery
firms as well as service delivery functions within manufacturing firms.
It includes topics such as strategic planning and design techniques,
principles of delivering quality service, managing capacity and demand,
managing information, techniques for improving quality of service
operations processes and customer services, and the human dimension
in service management.
Offered Spring
OMG 430.  Enterprise Resource Planning and Supply Chain Management
Cases.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 322 is required. Dedicated to introducing key concepts
of supply chain management (SCM) and real-world SCM cases, helping
students interpret the happenings in the world from a supply chain's
perspective. This course will provide students with hands-on experience
with the SAP ERP solution in use by major corporations to manage and
improve the efficiency of their supply chains.
Offered Fall, Spring
OMG 502.  adv Topics : Operations MGT.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 321 or equivalent. Management of operations process
including production and service aspects. Topics include capacity and
location planning, scheduling, facility layout, project and inventory
management quality improvement. Behavioral, multinational ethical
issues will be considered. Case analysis, oral/written presentation and
computer usage required.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 510.  Logistics Applications.  (3 Units)  
This course introduces students to various logistics application areas.Â
Key areas to be covered include:Â warehouse management; pipeline
management; inventory management; distribution; scheduling; freight
consolidation and forwarding; international aspects of logistics; ocean/
land carrier logistics; fleet operations; site location; and tariffs.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 520.  Logistics Case Studies.  (3 Units)  
This course will expose students to transportation and logistics case
studies in logistics such as United Parcel Service, Dell, Ford, Cathay
Pacific, Royal Caribbean Cruises, etc. Students will be exposed to
logistics problems faced by major companies and how they were solved.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 570.  Supply Chain Design and Strategy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: BUS 495 or Statistics is recommended. Covers principals
and fundamental concepts in supply chain management. Introduces
several quantitative methods to design an efficient supply chain. Topics
include: demand forecasting, inventory management, supply chain
network design, coordination, logistics and sourcing.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 575.  Supply Chain Management Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: OMG 570 is required; CIS 530 is recommended. Apply
information systems to support supply chain, focusing on delivering
performance consistent with a firms competitive strategy. Topics include:
study of existing SCM information systems, demand-driven networks,
CRM, collaboration, supplier relationship management, logistics and
integration of SCM systems to company's ERP system.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 580.  Global Logistics Management.  (3 Units)  
In this course, students tackle real life Logistics management projects.
Emphases are on applying theoretical frameworks to align enterprise
Logistics and business strategies, and on integrating and applying
knowledge and skills that they have acquired from the previous course
work.
Offered Infrequent
OMG 595.  S Topics: Quantative Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and OMG 502. Intensive study of a
specialized area of quantitative methods on a selected topic of particular
interest to faculty and students. Three hours of seminar per week.
Specific topic listed in class schedule. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
298 Organizational Leadership Studies (OLS)
Organizational Leadership Studies
(OLS)
OLS 300.  Ethos Libl Arts & Role of Work.  (3 Units)  
Examines the relationship between liberal arts and sciences education
and the competencies required to function effectively in social and
occupational settings. Readings and assignments emphasize integration
and application of skills, knowledge, perspectives, and values acquired
through liberal arts and sciences.
Offered Fall, Spring
OLS 490.  Sem in Occupational Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: OLS 300, satisfaction of GWAR and Senior Standing.
Required of all applied studies majors. Interdisciplinary analysis of
leadership in selected occupational areas. Creation and presentation of
student portfolios demonstrating occupational accomplishment. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
OLS 494.  independent Study in Organizational Leadership Studies.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of the program director. Independent research
or other study under the direction of a full-time faculty member of the
Applied Studies Program. CR/NC grading.
Offered As needed
OLS 495.  special Topics in Organizational Leadership Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of the program director. Advanced seminar on a
topic of current interest to the discipline of Organizational Leadership
Studies. Three hours of seminar per week. Repeatable Course.
Offered Infrequent
OLS 496.  Internship in Organizational Leadership Studies.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Program Director. Under direction of the
Internship Coordinator, students work in an organization applying skills
and knowledge learned in the classroom. CR/NC grading. Repeatable
course.
Offered Infrequent
Philosophy (PHI)
PHI 101.  Moral Problems.  (3 Units)  
The role of morals as motivations and goals in our lives. General
knowledge of what values are and how they influence us on individual
and societal levels. Students will construct solutions to moral problems,
for example, problems of justice.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PHI 102.  Humanity, Nature & God.  (3 Units)  
Critical examination of perennial philosophical issues such as the
nature of philosophy, the existence of God, free will, truth. Both Western
and non-Western perspectives are discussed. Gives student general
understanding of his/her societal context. Essays as well as exams.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 120.  Critical Reasoning.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to methods of critical thinking including the nature of
arguments, formal and informal fallacies, deductive and inductive
arguments. Provides student with critical skills in both academic and
non-academic context. A-C-/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
PHI 201.  The Good Life.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 is recommended. Explores philosophical
approaches to the art of living. Readings will focus on ancient Greek and
Roman philosophy as a way of life, along with a selection of religious and
non-Western philosophies of the good life.
Offered Spring
PHI 202.  The Devil You Don't Know.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ENG 110 is recommended. The development of the idea of
the Devil and related ideas such as sin, evil, temptation, and the nature of
the human. Investigates the Devil in scripture, philosophy, literature, and
film. Includes Jewish, Christian and Muslim sources.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 220.  Symbolic Logic.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to symbolic logic and its relation to everyday language.
Students study deductive and inductive reasoning, the logical content
and consistency of statements, truth-functional operations, analysis of
arguments for validity and invalidity, logical fallacies, and elementary
quantification theory.
Offered Spring
PHI 300.  Proseminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: 6 units in LD Philosophy or department consent. An
introduction to philosophical methods, research and dialogue in order to
improve students' skills at writing and analysis. Topics to be covered will
address some central area or areas of philosophy and will vary from year
to year.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 301.  Ancient Greek and Roman Philosophy.  (3 Units)  
A critical study of the foundations of Western civilization as found in
ancient Greek and Roman thought.
Offered Fall
PHI 302.  Medieval Philosophies: Jewish, Christian and Muslim.  (3
Units)  
Offered Spring even
PHI 303.  Modern Philosophy: Descartes To Kant.  (3 Units)  
Western thought as manifest through the evolution of the philosophical
systems of Rationalism, Empiricism and Critical Philosophy.
Offered Spring
PHI 304.  19th Century Philosophy: Hegel To Nietzsche.  (3 Units)  
A study of nineteenth century European philosophy focusing on thinkers
such as Hegel, Kierkegaard, Marx and Nietzsche.
Offered Fall
PHI 305.  Contemporary Philosophy.  (3 Units)  
Study of contemporary American and European philosophical concepts,
movements, or key figures. Specific topic indicated in class schedule.
Repeatable for credit.
Offered Spring odd
PHI 308.  Existentialism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHI 101 or PHI 102 is recommended. Examines key
existential philosophers, such as Kierkengaard, Nietzsche, Heidegger,
Marcel, Sartre, de Beauvoir, and Camus. Also explored are existentialist
themes in the history of philosophy, literature, poetry, and film such as
Dostoyevsky, Rilke, Bergman, Kurosawa, and Woody Allen.
Offered Fall odd
2024-25 University Catalog 299
PHI 316.  Ethical Theories.  (3 Units)  
A critical inquiry into the groundwork of ethics by exploring such basic
questions in ethics as the nature of good, the criteria for right action,
the language of moral discourse, ontology and morality, and religion and
ethics.
Offered Fall
PHI 321.  The Nature of Beauty: Aesthetics.  (3 Units)  
A critical examination of our beliefs about the nature of beauty in the
context of art, music, literature and film. Topics include artistic creativity,
aesthetic experience, criticism and evaluation. Specific topic indicated in
class schedule. Repeatable course.
Offered Spring even
PHI 331.  Social & Political Philosophy.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. Historical and
contemporary theories on the scope and legitimacy of political
authority: discussion of various contract theories of the state and of
the relationships between rights of individuals and rights of states.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall odd
PHI 340.  Environmental Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Inquiry into philosophical theories and methods that assess how
humanity should relate to Earth, how we view ourselves ecologically,
whether consumption practices are logical and moral. Topics include
deep ecology, Eco-feminism, anthropocentric v. non-anthropocentric
Ethics, animal rights and sustainability.
Offered Spring
PHI 350.  Theories of Cognition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 120 or equivalent. PHI 300 is highly recommended.
This course will approach the question of mind from disciplines in
humanities, sciences, and social sciences. Several standpoints such as:
classical philosophy, cognitive science, neurology, computer science and
artificial intelligence, cognitive ethology, and evolutional linguistics will be
discussed.
Offered Infrequent
PHI 351.  Death and Dying.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to psychological, medical, cultural, and ethical aspects of
death and dying. A cross-cultural approach to perceptions of death and
dying, how and why they have changed over time, how various authors,
poets, and artists represent death and dying.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 352.  Myth as Reality.  (3 Units)  
Explores the nature of myth, its relationship to ritual, dream, and folktale,
and its manifestations in literature and the individual. Although the
course will have a primary literary focus, it will draw on the disciplines of
philosophy, religious studies, anthropology, and psychology.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 353.  Age of Revolt.  (3 Units)  
Investigation of the spirit of revolt in the historical period of the
Spanish Conquest; the American, French, Haitian, Russian and Algerian
revolutions; Black Power and Zapatista: through history, philosophy and
the arts.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 365.  Mind, World and Language.  (3 Units)  
A critical examination of the relation between knowledge and reality, with
a particular interest in the role of language. Readings include a variety of
historical and contemporary perspectives, such ans analytic philosophy,
pragmatism, and phenomenology.
Offered Spring even
PHI 370.  Philos of Africa & Diaspora.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. A critical study of African
and afrocentric philosophies, including Bantu, Akan, and Yoruba
traditions. African American philosophers such as Alain Locke and other
third world African peoples are also covered in depth. Topics include
personhood, time, causality, value theory, black aesthetics, and black
feminist epistemologies.
Offered Spring
PHI 371.  African World Religions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is recommended A critical study of traditional
religious experience and expression among peoples of the African
continent including the Akan, Yoruba and Ibo as well as manifestations of
Christianity and Islam as expressed both in Africa and in the Americas .
Offered Fall
PHI 378.  Philosophy of Religion.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300. A critical, comprehensive study of the nature
and value of religion. Includes such issues as the relationship between
Religion, Philosophy, Theology, and Science; the existence of a deity,
revelation(s), faith, the problem of evil, scriptural myths, and religious
experience and language.
Offered Spring
PHI 379.  Contemporary Moral Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. Philosophical inquiry
into basic moral problems relevant today such as morality versus nonmorality, human responsibility, individual versus societal values, morality
versus legality, ethnic identity versus social conformity, abortion versus
right to life, and the euthanasia decision. Repeatable for Credit.
Offered Fall
PHI 383.  Comparative Religions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. A study of the relationship
of the various religious perspectives of the world, their rituals, their
influence on society and their philosophical implications.
Offered Fall
PHI 384.  Philosophies of India, China and Japan.  (3 Units)  
The evolution and meaning of various non- Western traditions will
be discussed. Selected topics will include Hinduism, Buddhism, Zen
Buddhism, Shintoism, Confucianism. Emphasis on significance in India,
China and Japan . Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
PHI 386.  Analytical Methods of Biblical Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. The Bible in light of modern
scholarship; principles and methods of its interpretation. Emphasis is
given to the Pentateuch, the Gospels, and other key portions for their
philosophical and theological views.
Offered Fall odd
PHI 480.  Religion and Violence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 383 is recommended. A critical examination of
fundamentalist movements in various religious traditions. Explores the
intrinsic relationship among four key variables: religion, secularization,
fundamentalism, and the consequences of religious fundamentalization.
Finally, we will ask whether fundamentalist principles legitimate new
forms of religious violence.
Offered Fall odd
300 Photography (PHT)
PHI 490.  Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300. A critical analysis and interpretation of a
major philosophical or religious system or issue in respect to its
presuppositions, task, method, problems and solutions. Repeatable
course. Course is writing intensive. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
PHI 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. Study of a particular
philosophical or religious problem, individually or as a team or group,
under the direction of a faculty member. Only three units may be used for
Philosophy major and minor requirements.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHI 495.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. An intensive study of a
concept, movement or individual in Philosophy. Intended for students
with senior standing and having fulfilled major requirements. Specific
topic listed in class schedule. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Infrequent
PHI 580.  Religion and Violence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 383 is recommended. A critical examination of
fundamentalist movements in various religious traditions. Explores the
intrinsic relationship among four key variables: religion, secularization,
fundamentalism, and the consequences of religious fundamentalization.
Finally, we will ask whether fundamentalist principles legitimate new
forms of religious violence.
Offered Fall odd
PHI 595.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHI 300 is highly recommended. An intensive study of a
concept, movement or individual in Philosophy. Intended for students
with senior or graduate standing. Specific topic listed in class schedule.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
Photography (PHT)
PHT 300.  Digital Photography.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: DGN 110 or DMA 310 or consent of instructor. Introduction
to digital photography techniques as well as the general history of
photography. Development of creative expression as it relates to the
photographic medium. Six hours of activity per week. Fee required.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHT 350.  Photography 2.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Designed for students with introductory photography
knowledge to further synthesize their photographic skills with creative
concepts to create meaningful photographs. Course content will
emphasize photography as a vital component of contemporary art, and a
tool for social change.
Offered Spring
PHT 400.  Digital Photography 3.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Advanced level course that further addresses the
photographic methodologies of generating a photographic portfolio
within a concentration that investigates an idea of personal interest for
each individual student.
Offered Spring
Physics (PHY)
PHY 100.  Patterns In Nature.  (3 Units)  
Unifying principles of elastic, sound, light and matter waves. Models of
nature. Successes and failures of wave and particle models and their
synthesis. Designed for non-science students. Partially meets the lower
division General Education requirement in Natural Sciences.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 110.  Computer Methods in Applied Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 151 or MAT 153. Introduction to programming
with physics applications. Students will gain insight into physical
phenomena. They will learn to relate theory to experiment through the use
of interactive physics simulations.
Offered All terms, Spring
PHY 120.  Elements Of Physics I.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: High school or college algebra. Motion, energy, waves and
heat treated from a non-calculus point of view. Three hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PHY 122.  Elements Of Physics II.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 120. Electricity, magnetism and light. Nuclear radiation.
Quantum phenomena. Atomic structure. Three hours of lecture and three
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 130.  General Physics I.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 191 or concurrent enrollment. Kinematics and
dynamics of particles, rigid bodies and fluids. Kinetic theory, temperature
and thermodynamics. Calculus-based course. Four hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 132.  General Physics II.  (5 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 193 or concurrent enrollment, and PHY 130. Waves,
light, electricity and magnetism. Four hours of lecture and three hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 134.  General Physics III.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 132 or consent of instructor. Twentieth century
physics, including concepts of relativity and quantum theory and particle
classification. Applications to radiation, atoms, elementary particles and
nuclei. Three hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 195.  Selected Topics in Physics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. The study of an area of Physics that
is not normally available in other courses. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
PHY 201.  Experimental Methods.  (3 Units)  
Fabrication techniques applicable in the laboratory per week. Properties
of materials. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
PHY 207.  Physics W/Clin Sci App.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: High school algebra, CHE 110 and CHE 112. Electricity,
magnetism and electromagnetic waves. Light, including the photon
model. Laboratory emphasis on solid state devices and electronic
instrumentation. Designed for students in the Clinical Sciences. Three
hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 301
PHY 210.  Physical Science for Teachers.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to the Liberal Studies major. Designed
specifically for future elementary and middle school teachers. Emphasis
on the fundamental concepts of physical science and their applications.
Laboratory experiments use mostly low cost everyday objects. Topics
include mechanics, fluids, heat, waves, electromagnetism, light, atoms,
periodic table and chemical bonding. Three hours of lecture and three
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PHY 295.  Selected Topics in Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. The study of an area of Physics that
is not normally available in other courses. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
PHY 302.  Wrkshp Phys Sci Fr Teachr.  (3 Units)  
Lecture-demonstration-laboratory covering fundamental concepts in
physical science, designed especially for in-service teachers (K-12). Class
emphasizes on hands-on activities using everyday objects. Two hours of
lecture and three hours of laboratory per week. Not for physics majors or
minors. CR/NC grading.
Offered Infrequent
PHY 306.  Math Methods In Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 211. Application of the following techniques to
physics: vectors, Gauss' and Stokes' theorems, series solutions of
differential equations, Sturm - Liouville theory, and Fourier Series.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 310.  Theoretical Mechanics I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 130, PHY 306 and MAT 211. Newtonian dynamics of
one and two particles. Introduction to Lagrange's equations. Includes
computer simulations.
Offered Fall
PHY 320.  Physical Optics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 132 or consent of instructor. Scalar wave equations,
interference and diffraction, spacial filtering, coherence and holography.
Offered Spring
PHY 331.  Audio Electronics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 100 or consent of instructor. Selection and utilization
of electronic components and instrumentation. Solid state circuit design
and construction. Fundamental electronics through linear amplifiers,
power supplies, filters and feedback. A project is required. Designed for
students interested in audio techniques. Two hours of lecture and three
hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
PHY 333.  Analog Electronics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 122 or PHY 132 or consent of instructor. Selection
and utilization of electronic components and instrumentation. Solid
state circuit design and construction. Amplifiers, feedback techniques,
operational amplifiers, SCRs, FETs, etc. A project is required. Two hours of
lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 335.  Digital Electronics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 122 or PHY 132 or consent of instructor is required,
PHY 333 is recommended. Design and use of systems employing digital
integrated circuits. Gates, Boolean algebra, combinatorial and sequential
design. Multiplexers, flip-flops, shift registers, ALUs and memories. Two
hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
PHY 337.  Microprocessors.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 335 or consent of instructor. Architecture, programming
and interfacing of microcomputers. Input/output, instruction sets,
subroutines, interrupts, serial communications and process control. Two
hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
PHY 339.  Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 333. Measurement techniques, transducers, noise
reduction, signal processing in the analog and digital domains. Computer
controlled instrumentation and data acquisition. Bus configurations and
interfacing. Two hours of lecture and three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
PHY 341.  Advanced Laboratory.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 132 (or 122) and 333. Advanced experimental work,
including data acquisition and error analysis techniques. Experiments
are taken from several of the major areas of physics, such as optics and
spectroscopy, solid state, acoustics, nuclear physics and electronics.
Course may be repeated for credit with instructor's approval. One hour of
lecture and one three hours laboratory period per week.
Offered Spring
PHY 346.  Thermal Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 130 and MAT 211. Laws of thermodynamics.
Equations of state, entropy, free energies, kinetic theory and concepts of
statistical physics.
Offered Spring
PHY 350.  Electromagnetic Theory I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 132, PHY 306 and MAT 211 are required; MAT 213 is
recommended. Electro- and magnetostatics. Electromagnetic properties
of matter, Faraday's law of induction, direct and alternating currents.
Includes computer simulations.
Offered Fall
PHY 352.  Electromagnetic Theory II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 350. Derivation and applications of Maxwell's
equations in vacuum and material media. Electromagnetic radiation.
Includes computer simulations.
Offered Spring
PHY 356.  Astrophysics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 132 and PHY 134. Quantitative study of stellar
astronomy with emphasis on stellar evolution and cosmology. Includes
computer simulations.
Offered Spring even
PHY 380.  Non-Linear Phenomena.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 311 or PHY 306; PHY 310 recommended. Linear
systems, iterated maps, differential flows, conservative systems, routes
to chaos, strange attractors, fractals, coherent structures, and pattern
formation. Visits to computer lab will be included.
Offered Spring
PHY 395.  Selected Topics in Physics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. The study of an area of Physics that
is not normally available in other courses. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
PHY 460.  Quantum Mechanics I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 134, PHY 306 and MAT 211. Quantum phenomena;
postulates and interpretation; Schroedinger's equation in one, two and
three dimensions. Applications to atoms and barrier penetration.
Offered Fall
302 Political Science (POL)
PHY 462.  Quantum Mechanics II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PHY 460. Spin, identical particles. Applications of quantum
mechanics to problems of current interest in physics, such as solid state,
nuclear, astrophysics and particle physics.
Offered Spring odd
PHY 494.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division standing and completion of an independent
study contract are required. A reading program on a specialized topic in
Physics under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 495.  Selected Topics Physics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division standing and consent of instructor. The
study of an area of Physics that is not normally available in other
courses. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
PHY 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division standing and consent of instructor.
Advanced laboratory work in an area related to physics or
instrumentation. The student participates in an independent investigation
under faculty supervision. Repeatable course. Three to nine hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PHY 595.  Special Topics in Physics.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Advanced course of special interest to
graduate students. Topic and content will vary as announced.
Offered As needed
Political Science (POL)
POL 100.  General Education Political Science: World Perspectives.  (3
Units)  
An introduction to world affairs and the role of the individual in an
increasingly complex and interdependent international system. Both the
conceptual and practical aspects of problem solving and decision making
are examined as they relate to international cooperation and conflict.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 101.  American Institutions.  (3 Units)  
A study of contemporary political institutions, with emphasis on the
philosophy, structure, and behavior of the American political system,
including the State of California. Meets State requirement in U.S.
Constitution and California State and Local government.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 300.  Research Design in Political Science.  (3 Units)  
The first course of a two-course sequence - POL 300 and POL 301 - that
examines the fundamentals of research design in political science.
Satisfies Graduation Writing Assessment Requirement (GWAR). A grade
of C or better in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all Political
Science and Behavioral Science majors and minors.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 301.  Statistical Analysis in Political Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: POL 300 is required. Focuses on introducing students to
elementary statistical techniques and their applications to problems in
Political Science.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 304.  Basic Concepts of Law: Substantive.  (3 Units)  
An examination of conflict situations which arise in contemporary life and
the way in which the law and legal institutions address these conflicts.
Statutory law and common law will be studied with an emphasis on case
analysis, torts, crimes, property, contracts, and landlord-tenant.
Offered Infrequent
POL 305.  Basic Concepts of Law: Procedural.  (3 Units)  
A basic course in understanding the legal system with a focus on basic
procedural law. Emphasis will be placed on civil procedure, evidence, and
litigation, probate and corporation, partnership and agency.
Offered Infrequent
POL 310.  Current Issues in American Government.  (3 Units)  
Analysis and critical evaluation of recent major issues, conflicts and
problems in American government and institutions. Current issues might
include social and health services, energy, environment, multinational
corporations, military spending, taxation, political economy, criminal
justice, and civil rights.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 312.  State and Local Government: Organization and Problems.  (3
Units)  
Analysis of functions of state and local government with particular
emphasis on California. Examination of state-federal and state-local
relations and the policy choices available for solving current problems.
The course meets the statutory requirement for state and local
government.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 314.  American Political Parties and Elections.  (3 Units)  
A study of the dynamics of American political behavior, including the legal
regulation of parties and of elections. Analysis of voting behavior and
public opinion. Study of political party organization, membership, and
leadership in the context of the contemporary political scene.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 315.  Congress and the President.  (3 Units)  
An analysis of development and operation of the elected decision-making
structures of the United States government. Particular focus on the
interrelationships between the Congress and the President.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 318.  Public Policy Choices: Distribution of Wealth.  (3 Units)  
A study of wealth and redistribution, including the causes and
consequences of inequalities in the United States and other countries.
Considers how economic inequality affects citizens' participation in
political activities, interest groups, political parties, social movements,
and civic associations.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 319.  Horror and Politics.  (3 Units)  
Perquisite(s): POL 101 required. Co-requisite(s); POL 315 recommended.
In addition to scene of terror, many times horror films deliver political
commentary. What do horror films say about the times in which they were
created, as well as our own time? This course will explore these issues
and more.
Offered Fall
POL 320.  Urban Government and Policy Choices.  (3 Units)  
A survey of the structures of American municipal, county, and special
districts within the context of a systematic evaluation of the public policy
choices facing these units of government.
Offered Fall, All terms
2024-25 University Catalog 303
POL 323.  Black Politics.  (3 Units)  
An analysis of the structure of power within the Black community and
political interaction between activists, moderates, and conservatives.
Evaluation of styles within the Black sub-political culture and
manipulative aspects and tactics; e.g., coalition, confrontation,
establishment politics.
Offered Fall
POL 325.  Women and Politics in the United States.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the expansion across time of women's rights in the United
States. Considers the limitation of rights, feminist movements/theory,
and ongoing problems. Also examines roles of specific women who have
lead movements and/or pushed for legal change.
Offered Spring
POL 328.  Cultural Pluralism in American Politics.  (3 Units)  
Discusses the issues of political socialization and cultural differences in
the American political arena. Analyzes the political orientations of various
ethnic groups in the United States , their cultural and socioeconomic
backgrounds, and their levels of political participation and interaction
with American political institutions.
Offered Infrequent
POL 331.  International Terrorism.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the concept of terrorism, root causes and forms. Examination
of theories and counter-terrorism strategies at different levels of analysis;
individuals, groups, societal, states and transnational. Special emphasis
on specific terrorism cases, terrorist organizations and cyber-terrorism in
the Digital Age.
Offered Fall
POL 332.  International Security.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the theory and practice of international conflict, crisis, and
war management. Special emphasis on the contemporary concerns of
deterrence, limited war, guerrilla warfare, foreign commitments, arms
races, and arms control.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 333.  International Relations of East Asia.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of contemporary international relations of East Asia, including
the rise of China, its affects on US-China relations and implications in
the region concerning foreign policy issues for countries such as Japan,
North and South Korea, Vietnam, Indonesia, and Thailand.
Offered Spring
POL 334.  American Foreign Policy.  (3 Units)  
The formulation and execution of foreign policy in the United States,
including an analysis of competing ideological concepts, the role of
President and Congress, and the influence of public opinion.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
POL 335.  Introduction to International Relations.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to international relations. Students will learn theories,
concepts, principles and practices of international politics. Topics include
war/peace, international political economy, and international institutions.
Global issues such as terrorism, human rights, environment, and global
health will also be examined.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 336.  Theories of International Relations.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of action and interaction of states, decision-making, capability
analysis, balance and imbalance, systems analysis, communication,
crisis, and game theory.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 337.  European International Relations.  (3 Units)  
An analysis of European international relations and foreign policies
including the impact of Western European economic integration, the
foreign policies of the Russian Commonwealth with Eastern and Western
Europe, and the changing role of NATO.
Offered Infrequent
POL 339.  Model United Nations.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the role of international organizations and the issues
addressed by these international actors while preparing students to
participate in intercollegiate Model United Nations simulations. May be
repeated for credit to a maximum of 9.0 units.
Offered Infrequent
POL 340.  Introduction to Comparative Politics.  (3 Units)  
Study of domestic politics in different regions of the world by focusing
on topics, such as economic development, democratization and regime
change, political institutions, income redistribution, and political
representation.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 341.  Gov and Politics of East Asia.  (3 Units)  
China, Japan, and Korea : political behavior, ideas, and institutions
of societies of East Asia. Political parties and organizations, role of
competing ideologies and systemsÂ of behavior, interaction of domestic
and foreign policies.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 342.  Government and Politics of the Middle East.  (3 Units)  
Analysis and explanation of political processes, governments, political
issues and foreign relations of the Middle East. Discussion of influence of
religion, oil, revolutions and conflicts on Middle East politics.
Offered Fall
POL 343.  Political Behavior in Latin America.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of political and cultural behavior in South America with a
focus on Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Peru, Colombia , and Venezuela . Their
sociopolitical institutions, elites, and interest groups; and the impact of
national and cross-national cultural pluralism upon political life in the
region.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 344.  Latin America: The Revolutionary Tradition.  (3 Units)  
A comparative analysis of the revolutionary process in Mexico , Central
America and Cuba , encompassing the dimensions of the sociopolitical, cultural and economic characteristics. An emphasis on postrevolutionary developmental politics in Mexico, Nicaragua, Cuba , and
on the current social unrest in Central America, including an analysis of
ideas, institutions, groups and economic conditions.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 345.  Democratization.  (3 Units)  
Students examine the basic principles, theories, and comparative
methods useful for understanding the challenges of democracy and
democratization and provides insights into the range of practical policy
recommendations which could be adopted to strengthen the process of
democratic governance.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 347.  Comparative Political Parties.  (3 Units)  
For more than a century, democratic politics has been synonymous with
party politics. This class provides an understanding of the origins or
parties and party systems, the reasons for their successes and failures,
and their impact on political outcomes.
Offered Fall, Spring
304 Political Science (POL)
POL 349.  Government and Politics in Sub-Saharan Africa.  (3 Units)  
A study of the dynamics of government and politics in Africa south of
the Sahara Desert with special emphasis on South Africa . Imperialism
and colonial administration, nationalism, and decolonization treated as
background to the problems of modernization and nation-building in the
region.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 350.  History of Political Ideas.  (3 Units)  
A critical analysis of the major political philosophies and schools of
thought from Plato to the sixteenth century. Examination of the political
concepts of Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, and
Machiavelli.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 351.  Modern Political Thought.  (3 Units)  
A study of principal political philosophers from the seventeenth century
to the present. Special emphasis is given to writers such as John Stuart
Mill and Karl Marx, whose concepts of political criticism have become
predominant in the modern world.
Offered Spring
POL 352.  Democratic Theory.  (3 Units)  
A comprehensive examination of the theory and practice of democracy.
Students engage with various theoretical justifications for democracy,
analyzing the various understandings of its strengths and weaknesses.
Using these theories, students examine the various forms of democracy
historically and globally.
Offered Spring
POL 354.  American Political Thought.  (3 Units)  
A critical analysis of the political ideas that have emerged within the
United States . Special attention is given to twentieth century political
theories that aim to achieve social justice and/or alternative life styles
through a restructuring of the economy.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 355.  Politics and Political Theory through Film.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on political theory and politics as presented through film.
Students examine the various ways artists critique existing political and
social structures, provide alternative visions, and challenge audiences to
rethink their unexamined assumptions regarding human existence.
Offered Fall
POL 356.  Political Theory and Science Fiction.  (3 Units)  
Explores how science fiction has explored perennial questions of political
theory. Students engage with the books, films, and TV shows of the genre,
and how thee works challenge existing political structures and develop
alternative visions.
Offered Fall
POL 357.  Food Politics.  (3 Units)  
Explores the political, social, and ethical concerns surrounding food and
food culture. Topics examined include: the ethics of consumption, food
media, cultural appropriation, and race, identity and the representation in
the restaurant industry.
Offered Fall
POL 360.  American Constitutional Law: Distribution of Power.  (3 Units)  
An examination of the nature and development of the United States
constitutional system. Emphasis on the role of the courts in interpreting
the concepts of separation of powers, federalism, the police power, and
the commerce clause.
Offered Spring
POL 361.  American Constitutional Law: Civil Rights.  (3 Units)  
A study of fundamental rights as protected by the U.S. Constitution and
other legal provisions. The role of the courts in interpreting freedom of
expression and conscience, due process, and equal protection of the
laws.
Offered Fall
POL 366.  Criminal Law and Procedures.  (3 Units)  
Materials and cases treating Criminal Law and procedures within the
context of the American policy. Systematic analysis of the role of the
citizen in relationship to operational legal principles and procedures of
Criminal Law. An emphasis on contemporary problems and recent court
decisions.
Offered Infrequent
POL 370.  Public Opinion and Propaganda.  (3 Units)  
The nature of public opinion and its manipulation by propaganda
in modern society. Relations between government and other social
institutions and the opinions of groups and individuals; the press,
pressure groups.
Offered Spring
POL 371.  Conflict, Violence, Nonviolence and Peace.  (3 Units)  
Examination of relevant theories and instances of aggression,
sociopolitical conflict and conflict resolution, various types of political
violence (as terrorism, revolution, urban riots) and nonviolence. Course
will present an overview of all these topics, or focus on one topic in detail,
such as terrorism, revolution, or nonviolence.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 372.  International Institutions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): POL 335 required. An examination of the theories and
practices of international institutions. The origins, structures, functions,
and effectiveness of international institutions will be discussed. Major
issues include war and conflict, global economy, environment, human
rights, and global health.
Offered Fall
POL 373.  International Political Economy.  (3 Units)  
An examination of the theoretical approaches to the study of
international political economy and contemporary issues in the global
economy. Major topics include international trade, international finance,
economic development, multinational corporations, and globalization.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 374.  International Human Rights.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): POL 335 required. An examination of the historical
evolution and practices of human rights in world politics. Emphasis on
the dynamic interaction between governments, and international and
domestic human rights institutions. The topics include political rights,
torture, refugees, racism, environment, and women's rights.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 375.  Technical Policy and the Future.  (3 Units)  
Various humanistic, ethical, legal, and political-economic policy issues
surrounding the use and future development of technology, in such areas
as energy, food production, transportation, computers, communications,
electronic surveillance, medicine, weaponry, and space. The issue of
high technology vs. appropriate technology also global restructuring
trends from technological change. Course will focus on one or more such
technological topics depending upon the instructor.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 305
POL 380.  Mock Trial I.  (3 Units)  
Students will be taught the basics of how to present a case in a
simulated trial environment. Students will create opening and closing
statements, and cross-examinations and direct examinations. Students
will have the opportunity to participate as witnesses. Upper division
status is recommended or consent of instructor is required.
Offered Infrequent
POL 401.  Political and Public Sector Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: 12 units of uppder division courses are required. This is
an applied techniques, skills-development course. It blends ideas from
several different sectors of political theory, public policy, public relations,
conflict negotiation, and intercultural communication to teach students
skills that are necessary for leadership roles.
Offered Spring
POL 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Independent
study of a particular problem under the direction of a member of the
Political Science Department. Course is not repeatable for credit in the
Political Science major or minor.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 495.  Special Topics in Political Science.  (1-3 Units)  
An intensive study of an issue or a concept in political science that is of
special interest to both the faculty member and the students. Repeatable
course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 496.  Internships in Political Science.  (3 Units)  
Practical application of coursework in political science through
supervised work and field experience in politics, government
administration, public and private paralegal agencies such as offices of
lawyers and judges, and community agencies. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
POL 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
Portuguese (POR)
POR 110.  Beginning Portuguese I.  (3 Units)  
Basic instruction in Portuguese. Training in speaking, listening, reading,
and writing for students who have no previous work in Portuguese.
Offered Fall
POR 111.  Beginning Portuguese II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: POR 110 is required. Continuation of basic instruction
in Portuguese (POR 110). Training in speaking, listening, reading, and
writing for students with prior course in Portuguese.
Offered Spring
Psychology (PSY)
PSY 101.  General Education Psychology: Understanding Human
Behavior.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to psychology emphasizing the personal, cognitive and
social development and functioning of the individual, and the influence
of both physiological and social factors. Consideration of basic concepts
and applications.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 110.  Critical Thinking and Problem Solving.  (3 Units)  
Course is designed to improve critical thinking and problem solving skills
such as deductive and inductive reasoning, probabilistic reasoning and
decision-making. May include computer-assisted instruction. A-C-/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 230.  Elementary Statistical Analysis in Psychology.  (3 Units)  
The application of descriptive and inferential statistics to the design and
analysis of psychological research.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 235.  Intro To Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 230 or MAT 131. Examination of the design, conduct
and interpretation of research studies, both experimental and nonexperimental, as demonstrated in a wide range of psychological
phenomena. Includes a consideration of philosophy of science and
preparation of research reports. Two hours of lecture and three hours of
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 240.  Biopsychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 required. PSY 230, PSY 235 recommended. Course
introduces the biological basis of human behavior providing information
on the different physiological systems involved in behavior and cognition.
An understanding of the human nervous system is central to this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 305.  History and Systems of Psychology.  (3 Units)  
The study of the development of psychology as a discipline, and the
influence of principal leaders and modern psychology.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 306.  Design Your Life.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 required. Course is designed to help students
prepare for the transition from the university to your first career. Students
will critically examine their beliefs, build skills needed to achieve their
career goals, and design plans for several careers.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 312.  Theories Of Learning.  (3 Units)  
Consideration of the major theories of learning and their experimental
bases.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 314.  Behavior Modification.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 or equivalent. The application of principles and
concepts from the experimental analysis of behavior to problems outside
the laboratory. Each student will successfully complete a project.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 316.  Behavioral Neuroscience.  (3 Units)  
AAdvanced study of the relationship betwen the brain and behavior.
Focus on neuroanatomy,psychology,pharmacology and their application
to cognition, emotion, learning, motivation, attention, executive function,
perception and memory. Analysis of model organism and their application
to neurodegenerative disease and the neurobiology of mental illness.
Foundational experiments and recent discoveries in the filed will be
reviewed and discussed with a focus on how these findigns relate to
broader theories in the field.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 318.  Stress Psychobiology.  (3 Units)  
This course cover the behavioral neurobiology of stress, including what
stress is mentally and physically, how stress affect physiology and
contributes to physical disease, and what factors moderate the stress
experience and improve stress management (such as biofeedback).
306 Psychology (PSY)
PSY 320.  Psychopharmacology.  (3 Units)  
Effects of drugs on mood, personality and behavior. Drug use in treatment
of mental disorders in children, adults, and the elderly.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 322.  Cognitive Psychology.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to theory and research in human information processing.
Topics include attention, memory, neurocognition, mental representation,
imagery, problem solving, reasoning, language, and other higher mental
processes.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 324.  Sensation & Perception.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 101 required. PSY 230, PSY 235 recommended.
Study of sensory and perceptual processes in vision, touch, and hearing.
Emphasis placed in how basic perceptual principles operate in everyday
life as well as in lab settings.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 326.  Neuropharmacology.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisites: PSY 101, PSY 230, PSY 235, PSY 240.
Recommended Prerequisites: PSY 320. Advanced study of the
chemical basis of behavior and mechanism by which drugs impact
the biological aspects of an organism. Focus on pharmacokinetic and
pharmacodynamic elements of neurochemical signaling, examining
major drug classifications, with an emphasis on the biological
dimensions of their action.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 328.  Music and the Mind.  (3 Units)  
Survey of topics in the psychology and cognition of music/ Student will
explore topics such as memory, attention, perception, imagery, language,
and thinking as they relate to music, with special attention to cognitive,
social dimensions, and identity.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 330.  Intermediate Statistics and Research Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 or MAT 131 is required. The applications of
statistical techniques to problems in the behavioral sciences. Discussion
of problems in hypothesis formulation, sampling techniques, distributionfree statistics, multivariate data analysis, and presentation of results.
Two hours of lecture and two hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 331.  Measurement In Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 230 or MAT 131. Fundamentals of psychological
measurement. Reliability, validity, item analysis, norms, and test
construction and selection. Experience in administering, scoring, and
interpreting tests of intelligence, aptitude, and personality. Two hours of
lecture and two hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 340.  Social Psychology: Psychological Perspective.  (3 Units)  
A broad survey of theories and research areas in social psychology.
Including such topics as aggression, prejudice, person perception,
leadership and conformity.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
PSY 341.  Social Cognition.  (3 Units)  
A review of theory and research focusing on mental processes that
underlie how people make sense of themselves and others. Social
cognition focuses on social interactions that involve people's judgments,
beliefs, decisions, and behaviors in social situations.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 342.  Interpersonal and Group Dynamics.  (3 Units)  
Methods, theories and research findings concerning interpersonal
dynamics and the dynamics of small groups. The class will learn
communication skills and participate in various aspects of group
experience.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 350.  Child Psychology.  (3 Units)  
The cognitive, psychological and social development of the child from
birth to adolescence. Fieldwork at discretion of instructor.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 351.  Psychology of Adolescent Experience.  (3 Units)  
Consideration of the major theories and research concerning
development during adolescence. Emphasis on the development of
personal identity as it relates to social roles in adolescence.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 352.  Psychology of Adult Development and Aging.  (3 Units)  
Theories and research in adult development and aging, including the
effects of physiological and socio-economic changes on psychological
variables within an aging population.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 353.  The Experience of Death and Dying: Psychological
Perspectives.  (3 Units)  
Readings, discussion, and case studies in the psychodynamics of
reactions to death and behavior patterns, coping with impending or
recent death, loss, and grief; attitudes towards death and dying; the fear
of death; children's responses to death.
Offered Spring
PSY 360.  Theories Of Personality.  (3 Units)  
A study of basic theories of personality including type theories; trait
theories; psychoanalytic, learning, biosocial, self and holistic-integrative
theories.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
PSY 363.  Abnormal Psychology.  (3 Units)  
The causes and manifestations of abnormal behavior. Field study and
case study.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
PSY 367.  Effective Communication Skills.  (3 Units)  
Training and practice in effective communication skills, such as active
listening, accurate empathy, respect, genuineness, concreteness,
assertion and message sending. Lecture will provide theoretical and
empirical rationale for applied skills and techniques. Supervised small
group practice will provide experience and feedback on applying such
skills.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 368.  Human Sexuality.  (3 Units)  
Course will cover the physiological and psychological aspects of human
sexuality. The origin and treatment of sexual dysfunction will also be
discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 370.  Health Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101. Survey of the major findings and theories from
the field of health psychology. Includes consideration of psychological,
social, and cultural effects on health.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 307
PSY 371.  Forensic and Legal Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 required. A survey of forensic and legal psychology
including interrogations, eyewitness memory, forensics, the death penalty,
the insanity defense, competency to stand trial, jury decision-making,
and more. Emphasizes research on the importance of understanding and
preventing wrongful convictions.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 372.  Industrial and Organizational Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Survey of the application of psychology to organizations, personnel, work
environments, buying, and selling, with particular attention to current
issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 376.  Psychology Of Gender.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 101 is recommended. Theory and research on the
development of gender identity and gender differences and similarities.
Includes role of ethnicity, cross-cultural evidence, and analysis of status
and power differences favoring males.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 380.  Psychology of the Mexican American I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 340 is recommended. The psychological development
and socialization of the Mexican American. The Mexican American as
unique from both mother culture and dominant culture, especially a
consideration of how language, color, and socio-economic class affect
the individual.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 382.  Psychological Development of the Black Child.  (3 Units)  
Unique environmental influences on the psychological development of
the Black child, from the prenatal period through elementary school.
Emphasis on social, intellectual and emotional growth.
Offered Spring
PSY 383.  Black Psychology.  (3 Units)  
An investigation into the dynamics of the Black personality, and the
influence of American social institutions. Focus on the various types of
psychological adaptations, identity conflicts, problems of self esteem,
and evaluation of Black consciousness.
Offered Fall
PSY 396.  Practicum In Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: HUS 300 or consent of instructor. May not be taken
concurrently with any other fieldwork course. Supervised work experience
in applied psychology, with emphasis upon human services and
educational settings. Supervision emphasizes training and application
of clinical, interviewing, and other helping skills, didactic methods,
group techniques, methods of evaluation and/or other skills specific to
fieldwork needs. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
PSY 411.  Advanced Research Methods in Personality and Social
Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230, PSY 235, and PSY 340 or PSY 360; concurrent
enrollment in PSY 412. Examination of selected areas of personality and
social psychology, such as interpersonal attraction, self concept, and
attitudes. Equips students to understand, evaluate and independently
conduct research.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 412.  Research Seminar in Personality and Social Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235; concurrent enrollment in PSY 411.
Development of research skills in personality and social psychology
including conception, design and conduct of studies, analyzing,
organizing and evaluating findings and communicating results. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 413.  Advanced Research Methods in Learning and Evolutionary
Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): PSY 235 & PSY 230 required. Corequisite: PSY 414. An
examination of the scientific synthesis of evolutionary biology of modern
psychology, which offers a novel approach to such issues as short-term
and long-term human mating strategies, short-term sexual strategies,
conflict between the sexes, parental investment, aggression, and social
dominance.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 414.  Research Seminar in Learning and Evolutionary Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235 are required. Co-requisite: PSY 413
is required. Development of research skills for studying human behavior
from the perspective of evolutionary biology, behavioral adaptations, and
comparisons with other species. The course includes conception, design
and conduct of studies, analyzing, organizing and evaluating findings and
communicating results.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 415.  Advanced Research Methods in Cognitive Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235. Survey of cognitive psychology
including intelligence, cognitive development, perception, reasoning,
memory, problem solving, language, comprehension and decision making.
Consideration of both Piagetien and information processing perspectives.
Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 416.  Research Seminar in Cognitive Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235; concurrent enrollment in PSY 415.
Development of research skills in cognitive psychology, including
conception, design and conduct of studies, analyzing, organizing and
evaluating findings and communicating results. Three hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
PSY 417.  Advanced Research Methods in Biological Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235. Study of biological mechanisms
underlying human behavior including physiology of various systems
including nervous system, sensory and motor systems, endocrine
system, with attention to applications and current advances in
neuroscience.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 418.  Research Seminar in Biological Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235; concurrent enrollment in PSY 417.
Development of research skills in biological psychology, including
conception, design and conduct of studies, analyzing, organizing and
evaluating findings and communicating results. Three hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
308 Psychology (PSY)
PSY 419.  Advanced Research Methods in Forensic and Legal
Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 230 and PSY 235 required. PSY 330 or PSY 331
recommended. Co-requisite: PSY 420 required. Explores the field of
forensic and legal psychology including interrogations, eyewitness
memory, forensics, the death penalty, the insanity defense, competency
to stand trial, jury decision-making. Emphasizes research on preventing
wrongful convictions and research methods employed to study
Offered Infrequent
PSY 420.  Research Seminar in Forensic and Legal Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 and PSY 235 required. PSY 330 or PSY 331
recommended. Co-requisites: PSY 419 required. Development of research
skills in forensic and legal psychology, including conception, design and
conduct of studies, analyzing, organizing and evaluating findings and
community results. Three hours of lab per week.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 464.  Introduction to Clinical Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 363. An overview of psychology in the clinical situation.
The scope, ethics, theories, and methods of clinical psychology.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms, Fall
PSY 470.  Community Psychology: Issues and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 363. Introduction to issues and concepts in community
psychology, including the study of community organization and
intervention programs.
Offered Fall, All terms
PSY 480.  Sport Psychology.  (3 Units)  
An in-depth analysis and application of psychological principles and
research in motivation, pyschopysiology, personality, cognition, and
emotion in sport settings.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 481.  Applied Sport & Fitness Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Scientific research results in the field of psychology are used to
illustrate how participation in sports and physical activity can facilitate
psychological development and physical well-being.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 482.  Psychology of Coaching and Team-Building.  (3 Units)  
Group processes, team-building techniques, leadership skills and
interpersonal communication skills will be applied to enhancement of
team spots performance and individual well-being.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 483.  Contemp Issues in Sports and Fitness Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Psychological theories will be applied to the identification and treatment
of problems people who participate in sports may have as well as applied
to the promotion of mental health.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 486.  Internship in Sport and Fitness Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Supervised application of psychological principles applied to sports and
fitness to promote performance and optimal well-being. There are four
prerequisite courses (PSY 480, PSY 481, PSY 482, PSY 483) that must
be completed before registering for PSY 486S, Internship in Sport and
Fitness Psychology. One of the four prerequisite courses sometimes can
be taken concurrently with PSY 486S. Also, please notify the instructor
of PSY 486S one semester before intending to register for this course so
she can approve an internship site and supervisor for you plus you will
need this instructor's consent before registering for PSY 486S.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 490.  Senior Seminar Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230, PSY 235, and PSY 330 or PSY 331 and
senior standing. A seminar designed to integrate previous work and
experience by emphasizing the application of theoretical models and
research designs and the relationship among theory, research, and the
dissemination of research findings. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PSY 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A reading program of selected topics
conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 495.  Seminar Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. An intensive study of a psychological
topic which commands the current focus of interest of both the faculty
member and the students. If repeated, the course will count only once
toward the major. Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 496.  Internship.  (3-6 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 396 or consent of instructor. May not be taken
concurrently with any other fieldwork course. Survey of professional
and ethical issues in the helping professions. Supervised internships in
human services setting.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 497.  Seminar in Peer Advising.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior standing and completion of 15 units of Psychology.
Training, supervision, and experience in peer advising. Emphasis on how
to provide effective academic assistance and planning, with other helping
and administrative skills also taught. Repeatable course. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 510.  Career Development in Clinical and Counseling Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Examines career development theories and techniques in clinical and
counseling psychology. Course content will explore decision-making
models and interrelationships among and between work, family and other
life roles and factors, including the role of multicultural issues in career
development.
Offered All terms, Fall
PSY 512.  Professional and Legal Issues in Clinical and Counseling
Psychology.  (3 Units)  
This course covers ethical standards for clinical and counseling
psychology. The course will cover ethical standards of professional
organizations and credentialing and licensing entities. Also included will
be partner abuse assessment, detection and intervention strategies, and
child abuse detection and reporting.
Offered As needed
PSY 516.  Perceptual Processes.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
PSY 517.  Seminar in Physiological Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 or MAT 131; PSY 417 and PSY 418. An advanced
study of the physiological correlates of psychological phenomena
including learning, motivation, emotion, sleep and personality. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
2024-25 University Catalog 309
PSY 520.  Seminar in Psychopharmacology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 320 and PSY 417 are recommended. The role of drugs
on cognition, emotion, and behavior, with reference to their biochemical
actions. Emphasis will be placed on psychoactive drugs, such as
psychiatric medications, recreational drugs and over-the-counter drugs.
Offered Fall
PSY 530.  Advanced Analysis of Variance and Multivariate
Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 330 or equivalent.Â PSY 235 is recommended.
Corequisite: PSY 535 is recommended. Advanced analysis of variance
including multifactor randomized groups and repeated measures designs,
nested designs, analysis of covariance, multiple regression, multiple
discriminant function, factor analysis.
Offered Fall
PSY 535.  Advanced Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 or MAT 131; PSY 235; PSY 330 or equivalent is
required; PSY 530 is recommended. Advanced research methodology;
including experimental design, correlational and ex post facto studies:
problems in research, e.g., generalization, significance, reliability; critique
of research; and philosophy of science. Will include a directed research
project.
Offered Fall
PSY 540.  Seminar In Social Psych.  (3 Units)  
PSY 550.  Seminar in Developmental Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 230 or MAT 131; PSY 235; PSY 350 or equivalent.
Exploration and discussion of recent theoretical and research literature
on topics such as early experience, intelligence vs cognition, gerontology,
imitation and social development, and research on adolescence. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
PSY 551.  Child and Adolescent Treatment: Theories and Practice.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite(s): PSY 563 required. Co-requisite(s): PSY 550
recommended. An examination of major theories, research studies,
and clinical interventions for working with children and adolescents.
Highlighted throughout the course will be a focus on biopsychological
and cultural factors that impact the mental health of children and
adolescents.
Offered Spring
PSY 555.  Psychology and Aging.  (3 Units)  
Examination of psychological aspects of the aging process, with special
emphasis on applied issues in agin research. Topics include: biological
aspects of aging, health context of aging, mental health and aging,
culture and spirituality, and care giving issues.
Offered Fall
PSY 560.  Seminar In Personality.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
PSY 563.  Seminar in Psychopathology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 363. Intensive analysis of theory and research
in psychopathology. Various orientations, such as behavioral,
psychophysiological, and existential will be explored. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall
PSY 564.  Advanced Psychotherapy Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 464 or PSY 563. Course will include an indepth
coverage of techniques from two or more psychotherapeutic approaches.
These approaches include the psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive,
and behavioral approaches. Emphasis is on concrete application of these
approaches in short term counseling situations.
Offered Spring
PSY 565.  Psychology of Clinical Groups.  (3 Units)  
Exploration of different approaches to therapeutic intervention on a group
level. Course will include an experiential laboratory component where
students will have experience in leading groups using different theoretical
orientations. Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Spring
PSY 566.  Indv Intellectual Assess.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 331. Techniques for administering, analyzing, and
interpreting individual intellectual tests (such as the Wechsler and the
Stanford- Binet) and psychomotor tests. Intensive supervised practice in
administering the tests will be provided. Two hours of lecture, two hours
of activity and fieldwork by arrangement per week.
Offered Fall
PSY 567.  Individual Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 563 and PSY 570. Study of techniques for
administering, analyzing and interpreting personality tests and reporting
test results. Supervised intensive practice in administering tests will be
provided. Two hours of lecture with two hours of activity and fieldwork by
arrangement per week.
Offered Spring
PSY 570.  Community Psychology: Current Theory and Issues.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PSY 363 or PSY 470. Theory of the interaction between
individual functioning and social system variables with emphasis on
the changing role of the community mental health specialist and the
community psychologist.
Offered Fall
PSY 571.  Practicum in Clinical-Community Psychology.  (3 Units)  
A case approach to issues in clinical community psychology corrdinated
with supervised experience. Some of the topics covered are diagnosis,
interventions, ethics, laws, and cross-cultureal counseling. Three hours of
seminar plus supervised field work per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 572.  Sem Industrial/Organ Psy.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
PSY 573.  Crisis and Trauma: Theories and Interventions.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): PSY 563 required. Introduces students to crisis
and trauma counseling and includes examining: crisis theory;
multidisciplinary responses to crises, emergencies, and/or disasters;
effects of trauma; assessment strategies and treatment approaches; and
interventions for individuals with mental or emotional disorders.
Offered Spring
PSY 574.  Practicum: Diversity Issues in Clinical and Health
Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the impact of culture on mental health and on the
therapeutic relationship. Race/ethnicity, culture, class, sexual/affectional
orientation, ability status, and gender issues will be explored.
Offered Fall
310 Public Administration (PUB)
PSY 575.  Theories of Health and Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Overview of the relationships among psychosocial factors, illness and
health , based on research and theory from psychology, sociology,
anthropology and biology. Topics include: stress, obesity and lifethreatening illness.
Offered Spring
PSY 576.  Seminar in Health Psychology Research.  (3 Units)  
Analysis and discussion of research in health psychology. Areas of
research study will include: health promotion, coping mechanisms in
chronic illness chronic pain, psychocardiology, immigrant and refugee
health/psychosocial adjustment, and cultural issues in specific disease
processes.
Offered Spring
PSY 580.  Advanced Sport Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of instructor.
Psychological principles and research in motivation, psychophysiology,
personality, cognition, development, emotion and group behavior applied
to sport settings.
Offered Fall
PSY 585.  Neuropsychology.  (3 Units)  
Overview of neuroanatomy, neuropathology, and clinical and experimental
data on brain-behavior relationships.
Offered Fall
PSY 586.  Addictions Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite(s): PSY 585 recommended. Students will examine substance
abuse and addiction disorders in multiple client populations. Additionally,
co-occurring disorders, the effects of substances and addictions, and
best practices for counseling and treatment will be examined.
Offered Fall
PSY 592.  Teaching Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and permission of Graduate coordinator.
Discussion of teaching/learning styles, educational issues, technological
advances, teaching methods and materials, curriculum development, and
evaluation of course, teacher and student. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall
PSY 595.  Special Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Advanced course of special interest for psychology graduate students.
Topic and content will vary as announced. Repeatable course. Three
hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
PSY 596.  Clinical Psychology Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PSY 571 or PSY 574 is required; PSY 546 is recommended.
Field placement and clinical training in the applied use of theory, working
with individuals and families and documentation skills. Students must
have completed 12 unis of coursework before beginning practicum and
site must be approved by the MA Psychology program. Repeatable for
credit.
Offered Infrequent
PSY 597.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Classified graduate standing. Assignment of a reading list
formulated under the supervision of the instructor. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 598.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Classified graduate standing. Students will design and
conduct research projects under the direct supervision of the instructor.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 599.  Thesis.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Advancement to Candidacy. Thesis. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PSY 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their coursework but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Public Administration (PUB)
PUB 195.  Special Topics in Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
This course provides an overview of special topics the field of public
administration, which is concerned with the study of the implementation
of public policies and the management of public organizations. Topic and
content will vary as announced
Offered As needed
PUB 300.  Foundations of Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the role of public administration within the American political
system and of the concordant functions and responsibilities of public
sector administrators; discussion of administrative ethics; overview of
public sector administrative and managerial processes.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
PUB 301.  Administrative Leadership and Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Study of human behavior in organizational settings; examination of
how managerial/supervisory functions impact employee morale and
productivity and overall organizational effectiveness. Primary areas
of analysis include motivation, leadership, interpersonal and group
dynamics, communication, and organizational power.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PUB 302.  Public Financial Administration.  (3 Units)  
Administrative and political considerations of fiscal policy, the budgetary
process and fiscal controls, financial management and planning,
government and the economy, intergovernmental fiscal relations and
nature of grants-in-aid, alternate revenue sources, contemporary issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 303.  Public Personnel Administration.  (3 Units)  
Study of policies, methods, and techniques in Public Personnel
Administration; government personnel systems; manpower management;
values in public career systems; concepts of man and work; motivation
and morale; training; labor-management relations; contemporary issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 304.  Administration of Public Policy.  (3 Units)  
Policy decisions and their implementation and evaluation, relationship of
the branches of government and characteristics of bureaucracy.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PUB 305.  Applied Statistics in Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131. Role and application of statistical analysis in
public management; review of mathematics and statistical functions; use
of statistics in planning and decision-making functions; introduction to
the uses and application of computer technology.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
2024-25 University Catalog 311
PUB 306.  Research Methods in Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to research methods in social science and their application
in public administration, including formulating research questions,
reviewing literature, designing data collection processes, describing
sample and population, conducting statistical analysis and writing
research papers.
Offered All terms
PUB 307.  Public Sector Ethics.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to government ethics, providing opportunities to develop
ethical competence for careers in government and serves as a foundation
for further study of government ethics.
Offered All terms
PUB 314.  Compensation, Staffing, and Appraisal.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 303 or MGT 313. Review of concepts, approaches
and techniques used to develop compensation programs in public
organizations. Emphasis will be upon practices, legal requirements and
guidelines for these specialized areas of personnel management.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PUB 315.  Labor-Management Relations in Government.  (3 Units)  
Developments in public employee unionization, collective bargaining laws
and strategies, bargaining as a technical and political process, strikes
and impasse machineries, employee organizations and public policy,
administrative implication of public service unionism.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 324.  Analytic Decision-Making.  (3 Units)  
Analytic and quantitative approaches to planning, evaluation, and
decision-making; rational decision-making process as analytic framework
for comparing alternative public policies and actions; public sector
applications of selected quantitative methods, such as forecasting and
cost-benefit analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 329.  Local Government Administration.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the history, theory and practice of U.S. local government
administration, including the changing structure, forms, and functions
of local governments; the dynamics of intergovernmental, intersectoral,
and interpersonal relationships; the tools and strategies that contribute
to effective local government management and solution of problems.
Offered All terms
PUB 330.  Urban Administration.  (3 Units)  
Structures and processes of administrative agencies in the urban setting,
interagency relaÂtions, administration of urban public services, functions
and problems of the urban public executive.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 371.  Introduction to Health Services Administration.  (3 Units)  
Basic administrative practices; concepts and theory of administration;
role and responsibilities of management in planning, organizing, directing
and controlling a health services program; examination of current policy
issues; study of public policy formulation process; politics as a force of
change.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 373.  Health Policy.  (3 Units)  
Examination of current issues, trends, and problems in health care,
including public policy on the national, state and local community
levels. Emphasis will be given to the changing nature of medical care
delivery, the policy formation process, professional dominance, and new
developments in organizational forms.
Offered Fall
PUB 401.  Economics for Public Service.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the economics concepts for those interested in a career
in public service. This course explores the economic principles behind
societal problems and offers insights into how to solve them; how
markets and prices allocate scarce resources to achieve efficiency and
prosperity; discuss how markets can fail, and what the public can do to
intervene and solve these market failures to improve social welfare.
Offered All terms
PUB 426.  Intergovernmental Relations and Grant-Writing.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of financial and administrative relationships between different
levels of government and between the public, non-profit, and private
sectors. Discussion of developments in grants-in-aid, grantmanship
strategies, grants management, resource development and evaluation.
Application of knowledge through a grant proposal writing project.
Offered Spring
PUB 434.  Administrative Planning.  (3 Units)  
A review of the techniques of administrative planning to include
normative forecasting, planning and policy formation. The future
environment of government services to include demands and resources
will be explored within the framework of systems analysis and policy
sciences.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 450.  Nonprofit & Voluntary Sector.  (3 Units)  
Provides broad overview of the sector, its origin, size, composition, and
role in American Society and elsewhere.Â This course also reviews
theories of the sector and its conceptual underpinnings (i.e., its
philosophical, political, economic, and social basis in American society)
in some depth along with historical and religious foundations.Â We will
also look at such issues as why people organize, give financial support
and donate time.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 451.  Managing the Nonprofit Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 450 (recommended). This course aims to understand
the important role of nonprofit organizations in American society and
the growing impact of non-governmental agencies around the world.
It addresses the opportunities for and challenges to organizational
effectiveness and is designed to reflect the interests and needs of
nonprofit staff, board members, volunteers, and those who are seeking to
make an impact with their financial contributions.
Offered Fall
PUB 452.  Fundraising & Fund Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PUB 450; PUB 451 (recommended). This course examines
key aspects of the fundraising process for nonprofit organizations- major
theoretical foundations and general fundraising principles as well as a
variety of fundraising techniques, sources of donations, and aspects of
managing the fundraising process. The course combines applied and
conceptual readings and provides students with opportunities to apply
concepts and techniques through a series of service-learning portfolio
assignments in collaboration with area nonprofit organizations.
Offered Infrequent
PUB 490.  Senior Seminar in Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Senior status. Integrative course emphasizing application
of administrative concepts and principles through use of case study
analyses and simulation. Based upon student interest, course may
be structured to address specific concentration areas. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
312 Public Administration (PUB)
PUB 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of department chair. Independent investigation
of a research problem or directed readings in a selected area of public
administration. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PUB 495.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. An intensive study of an issue,
concept or administrative technique that is of interest to both students
and faculty of public administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 496.  Internship Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of department chair. Supervised internship in a
public agency. A written project related to the internship experience is
required. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 498.  Directed Research in Pub Admin.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. The student develops and completes
an individual study under faculty supervision. Repeatable course
Offered Infrequent
PUB 500.  Environment and Practice of Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
History and development of the field of public administration, and the
context of operations and the functions of management. The practice of
management will focus on the political environment, management theory,
planning, organizational structure, resources, decision-making and policy
analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 501.  Public Management.  (3 Units)  
Structural overview of the functioning and skill requirements for
contemporary managers in public and nonprofit sectors; examination
of the basic management functions from a comparative perspective;
emphasis on communication and critical thinking through action-based
approaches.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 502.  Administrative Theory and Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Prerquisites: PUB 500 and PUB 501 are recommended. Historical
overview of Organizational Theory and Public Administrative Theory
and analysis of the theoretical perspectives that have characterized
these fields; discussion of various theories, concepts, and models that
can be used to analyze organizations and to improve organizational
effectiveness.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 503.  Introduction to Research Methods in Public Administration.  (3
Units)  
Introduction to empirical research design in the social sciences, and
public administration in particular. Students will learn to assess the
use of both qualitative and quantitative research in social sciences and
discuss the epistemological principles that underlie different approaches
to research.
Offered All terms
PUB 504.  Quantitative Methods in Public Administration I.  (3 Units)  
The first course in a two-course sequence on quantitative methodology
in Public Administration (the subsequent course is PUB 505). The goal
of this tow-course sequence is to explore a variety of statistical methods
that are useful for managerial planning, decision-making, and public
policy analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 505.  Quantitative Analysis in Public Administration II.  (3 Units)  
Required Prerequisite: PUB 504. This is the second course in a twocourse sequence on quantitative methodology in Public Administration
(the previous course is PUB 504). The goal of this tow-course sequence is
to explore a variety of statistical methods that are useful for managerial
planning, decision-making, and public policy analysis.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
PUB 506.  Administration and Public Policy Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 505. Application of analytical tools to the solution
of public management problems, introduction to general models of
policy analysis, integration of solutions into administrative processes in
government; policy studies cases.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 508.  Public Human Resources Management.  (3 Units)  
Managing the human resources of a public agency with emphasis on
selected activities of recruiting, staffing, evaluating, compensating,
motivating and training the work force. Procedures and legal
requirements for collective bargaining, affirmative action, and equal
opportunity will be explored. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 510.  Public Budgeting.  (3 Units)  
Examination of methods, processes and problems in the budgeting and
administration of public revenues, revenue generation, forecasting, cost
control; emphasis on the political, economic and managerial aspects of
public budgeting.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 512.  Foundations of Ethical Administration.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the foundations of ethical administration, including
evaluation and application of ethical theories to public sector issues.
Course provides opportunities for students to think reflectively, recognize
ethical problems, and gain skills to effectively deal with political and
administrative problems.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 520.  Leadership in the Public Sector.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PUB 501 and PUB 502 are required. Overview of the
theoretical and practical foundations of leadership in the public sector.
Emphasizes the knowledge and skills needed to effectively lead within
public and nonprofit organizations.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 522.  Financial Management in the Public Sector.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 510. Course offers survey of financial management
functions in state and local government such as accounting, fund
structures, debt and cash management, and financial reporting. Course
provides a theoretical and practical introductions to financial analysis
and management in the public sector.
Offered All terms
PUB 524.  Strategic Management and Planning in Public and Non-Profit
Organizations.  (3 Units)  
Course aims to prepare current and future managers of public and/or
non-profit organizations by focusing in the knowledge, skills, values,
and perspectives needed to manage organizations strategically. The
course provides an introduction to the theory and application of strategic
planning and management in the public and non-profit sectors.
Offered All terms
2024-25 University Catalog 313
PUB 526.  Collab Governance.  (3 Units)  
Course examines theoretical foundations and practical models of
collaborative management in local government. Students will collect
and review relevant literature fro inter-government relations, public
management, and public/private partnerships, and apply findings to a
policy issue in local government.
Offered All terms
PUB 527.  Fundamentals of Qualitative Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 500 is required. Introductory course on the most
important concepts and methods of qualitative research. Involves reading
and discussion of presentations and examples of qualitative research
and a qualitative research project.
Offered Spring
PUB 528.  Economics for Public Managers.  (3 Units)  
This course aims to demystify economics for managers in the
public and nonprofit sectors. This course will provide you with the
economic principles to better analyze and understand problems facing
public managers. You will learn why markets can be so successful
in allocating scarce resources and achieving efficient market and
social welfare outcomes. You will learn how individuals, firms and
government, as producers, consumers, and regulators, interact at
the microeconomic level, and why macroeconomic concepts such
as inflation, unemployment, economic growth, interest rates, and are
important to understand. You will also learn how governments can
intervene to solve market failures and hence improve social welfare.
Offered All terms
PUB 570.  Administration of Health Care Organizations.  (3 Units)  
This course will examine issues associated with health care management
responsibilities, functions and leadership. This course will analyze the
administrative process, accountability, equity, ethics, and diversity issues
in health care administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 572.  Legal Issues in Health Care Administration.  (3 Units)  
This course defines the foundation, scope, and boundaries of health care
policy with an emphasis on public health care systems and the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act. Students will explore the differences
between local, state, and federal health policy levels.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 574.  Health Care Financial Management.  (3 Units)  
This course provides a comprehensive overview of the financial structure,
market forces, and techniques in health care financial management.
The courses is intended for students without a background in financial
management.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 580.  Nonprofit Leadership and Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PUB 500 and PUB 501 are recommended. Provides
an overview of the nonprofit sector and addresses leadership and
management issues. Emphasizes the context, institutional setting of the
sector and nonprofit governance, leadership, ethics, marketing, strategic
communications, advocacy, lobbying, program evaluation and human
resource management.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 582.  Public and Nonprofit Financial Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PUB 510 is required. Examines financial management
functions in government and nonprofit organizations, such as financial
planning, accounting, cost control, fund structures, debt and cash
management, financial reporting, and financial trend monitoring.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 584.  Fundraising and Development for Nonprofit Organizations.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PUB 500 and PUB 502 are required. Examines key aspects
of the fundraising process, techniques and management, such as
sources of donations, planning, development, fund goal-setting, major
gifts, capital campaigns, trustee participation, and managing the
fundraising process.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 592.  Capstone: Integrative Seminar in Public Administration.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of MPA Core courses. Integrative course that
emphasizes the interrelationships between the academic field of public
administration and administrative practice. Course includes case study
analysis and individual and group integrative projects. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 594.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of MPA Program coordinator. Independent
investigation of a research problem or directed readings in a selected
area of public administration. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 595.  Special Topics In Public Administration.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of MPA Program coordinator. Intensive study of
a specialized area of Public Administration (e.g., Urban Administration,
Criminal Justice Administration) or a selected topic in contemporary
public management. Three hours of seminar per week. Repeatable
course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 596.  Internship Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of MPA program coordinator. Supervised internship
working with a cooperating government agency in a function germane
to public administration. Sessions are held to discuss and analyze the
problems with which interns are concerned. A written project related to
the internship is required. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 599.  Honors Thesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Grade point average greater than 3.80 and consent of MPA
program coordinator. Thesis relating to public administration. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
PUB 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their coursework but not their
thesis or comprehensive examination, or who have other requirements
remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain continuous
attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of the MPA coordinator
required.
Offered Fall, Spring
314 Pupil Personnel Services (PPS)
Pupil Personnel Services (PPS)
PPS 501.  Leadership in School and College Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Required Co-requisite: PPS 525. This course examines the roles of the
counselor within the field of school and college counseling, including
the counselor as leader and advocate for students, community, and the
counseling profession. Leadership and professionalism will be explored
against the context of the history and foundations of the profession, the
core requirements necessary to become school and college counselors,
and the various employment opportunities and settings in educational
counseling.
Offered Fall
PPS 505.  Human Diversity.  (3 Units)  
Examines the counselor's role in serving diverse student populations
within educational systems, including implicit and explicit bias;
understanding one's impact upon cross-cultural relationships; and the
necessity for social justice and advocacy by counselors. Restricted to
majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 508.  Law and Ethics in Educational Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Examines ethical, legal and professional issues in educational
counseling, as well as implications for minority group and cross-cultural
counseling.
Offered Fall
PPS 512.  Consultation and Collaboration in Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GED 500 and PPS 525. Prepares counseling students to
apply knowledge of theories, models, and processes of consultation and
collaboration. Students will develop communication, interpersonal, and
problem-solving abilities to work with teachers, administrators, families,
and other community professionals. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
PPS 515.  Counseling Theories.  (3 Units)  
Examines major theories within the counseling filed in relation to
individual personality and development, with a focus on application to
school and college settings. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
PPS 520.  Program Development and Evaluation in Counseling.  (3
Units)  
Training in the development, implementation, and evaluation of
counseling programs within schools and colleges, including the use of
needs assessments, testing, and data to improve student outcomes.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 525.  Group Dynam Pers Growth.  (3 Units)  
Provides a personal growth experience for students based on readings
and group participation. The experiential aspects of the course will
provide the basis for an analysis of group dynamics and application
of techniques for understanding self and others, as well as developing
good interpersonal skills. CR/NC grading. Non-Repeatable. Restricted to
majors.
Offered Fall
PPS 530.  Sem Tech of Indiv Counsel.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 525. An advanced course in counseling techniques
appropriate for use in educational and community settings. Students
will practice various counseling techniques used to establish a positive
relationship with clients and assist them in making desired life changes.
Three hours of seminar per week. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 535.  Seminar in Career and Academic Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Provides knowledge and skill in career and academic counseling, with
emphasis on the roles of the high school and college counselor in student
advisement. Includes overview of college admissions advisement,
transfer requirements, computer applications for academic and
vocational information, and career theories and assessments. Restricted
to majors.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 536.  Foundations of College Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 525 is required. Examines the role of the college
counselor within higher education and provides a conceptual and
historical overview of student development, including student affairs,
student services and special populations.
Offered Spring
PPS 537.  College Counseling Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 525 is required. Supervised practice in the varying
functions of college counseling, including field based experiences
providing academic, personal/social, and career counseling on a college
campus. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 538.  Fieldwork in College Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 525, PPS 530, PPS 535, PPS 536 and PPS 537 are
required. Advanced field experience directly related to the functions and
responsibilities of college counselors. Experience a minimum of two
different settings within a college campus is required. CR/NC grading.
Repeatable for credit.
Offered Spring
PPS 540.  Sem: Tech Group Counsl.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 515 and PPS 530. An advanced course in group
counseling techniques appropriate for use in educational and community
settings. Developmental issues as they relate to counseling. Approaches
for remedial and preventive counseling. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 545.  Comprehensive School Counseling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 and PPS 525 are required. Examines the
fundamental elements of a comprehensive school counseling program as
aligned to the national school counseling model. Prepares counselors to
provide direct and indirect services in K-12 schools, including prevention
and intervention strategies, responsive services, and data-driven
decision-making. Restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
PPS 550.  Crisis Intervention in Educational Settings.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 and PPS 525. Intensive training in prevention/
intervention strategies for educational and community settings with an
emphasis on reducing risks associated with violence and crisis.
Offered Spring
PPS 554.  School Counseling Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 and PPS 525. Supervised practice using individual
and group counseling interventions for academic, social, emotional, and
behavioral problems of children and youth. Candidates participate as
leaders of simulated student study teams. CR/NC grading. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 315
PPS 555.  Child Welfare and Attendance Fieldwork.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: PPS 557 and PPS 558 are required. Field experience
directly related to the functions and responsibilities of Child Welfare
and Attendance counselors. Students will work with pupils to apply
and implement school attendance improvement strategies and truancy
intervention measures and procedures. CR/NC grading.
Offered All terms, Infrequent
PPS 556.  Funct Analy and Behvr Chng.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 512 and PPS 564. In this advanced course, candidates
apply behavioral theory in the analysis of the antecedents, consequences,
and functions of serious behavior problems from an ecological
perspective. Procedures for designing, implementing and evaluating
the effectiveness of academic and/or behavioral accommodations or
intervention programs are an emphasis in this course, as are the creation
of positive interventions, and the teaching of replacement behaviors
based on legal mandates.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 557.  Child Welfare and Attendance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 554 is required. Co-requisites: PPS 558 is
required. Provides an overview of the professional, legal, and ethical
responsibilities of Child Welfare and Attendance counselors, including
program leadership, collaboration and partnerships, and assessment
and evaluation of barriers to student learning and attendance. Fieldwork
component is required in public school and agency settings. CR/NC
grading. Restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
PPS 558.  School Attendance Improvement and Truancy Remediation:
Prevention and Intervention.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 554 is required. Corequisite: PPS 557 is required.
Examines strategies for Child Welfare and Attendance counselors to
remove barriers to student learning and improve school attendance, with
a focus on intervention support for students and families. Fieldwork
component is required in public school and agency settings. CR/NC
Offered Fall
PPS 559.  Assessment Theory and Techniques for Linguistically and
Culturally Different.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 560, SPE 460 and PPS 520. Theories and techniques
for assessing pupils with diverse cultural and linguistic backgrounds.
Issues related to second language development, bilingual, cognitive
language development and socio-linguistic factors affecting language
usage. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 560.  MS Counseling Capstone Requirement.  (3 Units)  
An advanced course in fulfillment of the culminating requirement for the
master's degree in counseling. Students will demonstrate competency in
the application of comprehensive counseling content and skills through
action research, oral, written analyses.
Offered Spring
PPS 562.  Practicum in School Psychology I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 520 is required. Administration, scoring and beginning
interpretation of tests of psychological processing and ability/cognition
as well as alternative instruments and measurements. Candidates
demonstrate appropriate assessment practices through supervised
practice. Experiences shadowing credentialed school psychologists and
providing service learning within the public school setting is required for
150 hours or more.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 564.  Seminar in Multicultural Educational Assessment and
Evaluation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 520 and PPS 562. Interpretation of ecological
evaluations for pupils from diverse backgrounds with an emphasis
on cross validation of results. Observations, review of records,
interviews, and assessment results are considered when complete
psycho-educational evaluations are written and orally presented with
recommendations, goals and objectives.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 566.  Practicum in School Psychology II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 520, PPS 530, PPS 562 and PPS 564. Preschool
Assessment and experience with additional standardized and alternative
methods appropriate for school aged children. Presentation of cases
for simulated IEP meetings. Advanced experiences shadowing school
psychologists and service learning within the public schools brings
practica total to 450 hours.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 571.  Multicultural Case Study Methods in School Psychology.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 520, PPS 562 and PPS 564. Issues related to second
language development and theÂ assessment of English Language
Learners areÂ applied in case studies. Appropriate selection of ecological
evaluations, recommendations, and standards based goals continue for
a variety of eligibility categories. Simulated IEP meetings require oral
presentation.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 572.  Assessment and Intervention for Autism, Emotional, and
Behavior Disorders.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PPS 512 and PPS 564. Differential diagnosis of Autism,
emotional disturbance and behavioral disorders. Administration
and interpretation of assessments appropriate for these disabilities.
Specialized interventions such as discrete trial, social stories, TEACCH,
and floor time are an emphasis. Classroom observations for specialized
classroom management approaches and motivational systems.
Offered Fall
PPS 575.  Fieldwork in School Counseling.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Supervised school counseling
field experience in a minimum of two different public school settings.
Fieldwork candidates will gain direct counseling practice working with
students, families, and school personnel to address the academic, socioemotional, and career needs of students. CR/NC grading. Repeatable
course.
Offered Fall, Spring
PPS 576.  ADV Research Meth School Psych.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GED 500. Review and critique of educational research
and the major approaches to educational research for the School
Psychologist. Proposals for action research projects and program
evaluations are created which may be later implemented during thesis
projects and or credential internship or fieldwork.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 577.  Internship in School Counslg I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: consent of instructor. For students with arrangements with
the public schools for emergency credential. A beginning experience in
the field as a certified school counselor in multicultural settings at the
elementary or secondary level.
Offered Infrequent
316 Quality Assurance (QAS)
PPS 578.  Internshp in School Counslg II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 577. An advanced experience in the field as a certified
school counselor. Arrangements completed with public schools for
emergency credentials.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 585.  Fieldwork School Psych.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Supervised training in elementary
and secondary school settings. Students must complete a minimum
of 90 days of fieldwork and meet competency requirements in psychoeducational assessment, planning and evaluation, counseling,
consultation, and behavior management. Course is repeatable for credit
until all competencies are completed. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
PPS 595.  Special Topics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: PPS 536 is recommended. Restricted to majors.Topics vary
by section and semester. See class schedule for title and prerequisites.
Repeatable course. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
Quality Assurance (QAS)
QAS 200.  Fundamentals of Quality.  (3 Units)  
A study of the fundamentals of Quality with an emphasis on the current
international standards, planning, organizations, methods and tools.
Emphasizes the works of leading international Quality theorists,
especiallyÂ JuranÂ and Deming.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 220.  Fundamentals of Measurement Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131. Introductory overview of the fundamentals of
measurement with emphasis on application of measurement science
concepts to quality management. Upper Division
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 312.  Interpretation of Technical Documentation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 153, QAS 200, QAS 220. Interpretation of basic
engineering drawing concepts, including all related common symbolism
and formatting. Emphasis on dimensions, tolerances, and configuration
management. Introduction to Military and Federal Specifications/
Handbooks, ANSI, IEC, and ISO documents, specifications and
recommended practices issued by private organizations.
Offered Spring
QAS 325.  Technical Communications.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: ENG 110, THE 120. Technical communications, written
and oral, and how they differ from non-technical writing and speech.
Emphasizes methods for the positive and unambiguous transfer of
technical ideas so that they can be clearly understood by the reader or
listener.
Offered Summer
QAS 330.  Statistical Quality Control and Inspection.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131, QAS 200, QAS 220. Introduction to the
application of statistical methodologies to the analysis and solution
of quality and management problems (including probability concepts,
control charts, and sampling). Focus will be on application of these tools
to the inspection process.
Offered Fall
QAS 331.  The Manufacturing Process.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 312. Introduction to the fundamentals of
manufacturing, where the conversion of raw materials and subassemblies into more useful entities adds value to the converted
materials in the most efficient manner, using the least amount of time,
money, space and manpower.
Offered Fall
QAS 332.  Electrical Metrology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131, PHY 122, QAS 200, QAS 220. Electrical
measurement concepts, circuits and devices; applications to DC and AC
measurements. Theory of coupled circuits in magnetic and capacitive
environments, and electrical laboratory practices, with analysis,
construction, and troubleshooting of circuits. Documentary control
procedures for calibrations and other measurements.
Offered Spring
QAS 335.  Quality Auditing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 200. The fundamental principles for preparing and
planning, conducting, reporting and closing quality audits. Quality audit
tools and techniques are introduced, with an emphasis on generallyaccepted quality audit practices that support business performance.
Offered Fall
QAS 340.  Measurement Uncertainty.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131, MAT 153, QAS 200, QAS 220. Theoretical versus
actual measurements. Probability and statistical concepts to define
accuracy, precision, error, uncertainty, and bias. Differences between
measurement accuracy and measurement error; random and systematic
error; uncertainty interval; tolerance limits; accuracy ratio; relative errors;
and propagation of measurement errors.
Offered Spring
QAS 347.  Dimensional Metrology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 122, QAS 200, QAS 220. Measurement of length,
angularity, relative position, flatness, parallelism, concentricity,
squareness, and threads. Lasers and optical tooling in large-scale
measurements; also gauges, comparators, and measurement machines.
Measurement uncertainties pertinent to dimensional metrology; sources
of error; the effect of the measurement environment.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 350.  Physical Metrology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: PHY 122, QAS 200, QAS 220. Theoretical and practical
applications of measurement principles as applied to various physical
properties. Measurement of pressure, mass, force, torque, temperature,
humidity, flow, and rotational motion. Identifying sources of error,
techniques to minimize errors and maintaining measurement traceability.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 355.  Safety and Reliability.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: MAT 131, MAT 153, QAS 200, QAS 220. Reliability,
maintainability, and safety technology with practical industrial
applications. Basic models; metrics; testing; methods of implementing
improvements; accelerated life testing. Failure mechanisms for chemical,
electro-chemical, electronics, electro-mechanical and opto-electronics
systems. Introduction to software reliability. Focus on qualification for
ISO 9000.
Offered Spring
QAS 360.  Fundamentals of Lean Manufacturing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 200, QAS 220. Deals with the strategies and practices
of lean production, as well assess with areas of waste, interrelationships
among the various components of a system, theories of leadership and
management of people, and process variation.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 317
QAS 395.  Selected Topics in Quality Assurance.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. An intensive study of an issue,
concept, or theory in Quality Assurance that is of special interest to both
the faculty member and the student. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
QAS 427.  Quality Improvement.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 200, QAS 220. Quality factors involving customer
satisfaction, demonstrating that meeting quality needs requires and
active role by all the major sectors of an organization. Operational and
statistical techniques most often used to monitor, control, and improve
the quality of products or services.
Offered Fall
QAS 445.  Systems Failure Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 200 and QAS 220. Integrates Quality, Manufacturing
and Procurement efforts to identify and eliminate the root causes of
failures in systems, sub-systems and components, emphasizing fault
tree and Pareto analyses. Hardware and statistical analysis, design of
experiments, and technical data package evaluations.
Offered Fall
QAS 450.  Value Based Quality.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 200, QAS 220 and consent of instructor. Used value
received, as perceived by the customer, as the primary measure of quality
in the development of cohesive enterprise-wide quality management
systems. A systemic approach to establishing the correct things to do
and a measurement -based process for implementation.
Offered Spring
QAS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. Independent study of a particular
problem under the direction of a member of the Quality Assurance
Department. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 495.  Selected Topics in Quality Assurance.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor. An intensive study of an issue,
concept, or theory in Quality Assurance that is of special interest to both
the faculty member and the students. Repeatable course. Three hours of
lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 496.  Internship in Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of all 300 level courses in the major.
Assignment in an off-campus internship with a cooperating organization,
to be selected in consultation with the program coordinator. Emphasis
on the role of professionalism and ethics in the life of the quality
professional.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 498.  Directed Research in Q.A..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of all 300 level courses in the major. Directed
research on one or more topics to be selected in consultation with the
program coordinator. Emphasis on the role of professionalism and ethics
in the life of the Quality professional.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 499.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 496 or QAS 498. A capstone project focusing on the
role of leadership in relation to professionalism and ethical standards in
the field of Quality Assurance. Graduate
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 510.  Advanced Probability and Statistics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: undergraduate calculus, Probability and statistics. A study
of measures of central tendency and dispersion, important discrete
and continuous probability distributions, sampling theory, hypothesis
testing and estimation. Linear regression and correlation will also be
covered. The uses of statistics in testing, inspection, and production will
be identified.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 511.  Quality Function Management and TQM.  (3 Units)  
A study of the functions and responsibilities of the quality organization.
TQM concepts, quality function deployment, and the tools for continuous
improvement are analyzed for sequence of use and development.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
QAS 512.  Reliability.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 510. Overview of reliability engineering. Use of
mathematical models of predictions, confidence assessment, and
systems reliability. Emphasis on practical applications for product or
system design.
Offered Fall
QAS 513.  Statistical Quality Control and Sampling.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 510. The application of advanced statistical
methodologies to the analysis and solution of quality and management
problems, including probability theory, control charts, sampling,
regression analysis and the design of experiments. Focus on statistical
process control and related quality technologies.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 514.  Advanced Experimental Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 510. Analysis of statistical experimental design
strategies. Planning of experiments for the best strategy and objectives.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 515.  Human Factors in Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
A comprehensive survey of human factors engineering theory, research
and applications which are of particular relevance to quality assurance.
A systems framework will be utilized, emphasizing feedback and
interrelations among system components, including the human operator.
Emphasis will be placed on operator constraints in the design of work
processes, workplaces and instrumentation.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 516.  Measurement and Testing Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 510 or consent of instructor. In-depth discussion of
equipment, principles and techniques of measurement assurance.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 518.  Quality Project Management and Productivity.  (3 Units)  
An in-depth examination of current theory and techniques in QA project
management. Topics include description of project management
techniques as well as procedures for evaluating their overall
effectiveness and contributions to production and service quality.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
QAS 521.  Process Control and Capability.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: QAS 513 and QAS 514. Detailed study of procedures
and methods for performing machine and process capability studies,
troubleshooting production and test problems, and maintaining
continuous production and process evaluation in manufacturing
operations.
Offered Infrequent
318 Quality Assurance (QAS)
QAS 522.  Applied Systems Reliability, Maintainability and Safety.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 512. Advanced and detailed analysis of appropriate
reliability models, life-cycle reliability prediction and assessment,
accelerated test models and techniques, test parameter variation
studies, test tailoring and program plans for various reliability test types,
maintainability concepts, prediction and assessment techniques, and
safety programs.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 523.  Software Reliability.  (3 Units)  
A study of the theory and applications of reliability concepts as they
relate to software design and implementation.
Offered Fall
QAS 525.  ISO 9000 & The Audit Function.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. A study of the ISO 9000 series of
quality system standards with emphasis on manufacturing and service
industry applications. The studies address the standards interpretation,
documentation and implementation including preparation for and
creation of internal and external audits.
Offered Fall
QAS 526.  Supplier Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511. Encompasses a study of the fundamental quality
requirements attendant to the successful procurement and delivery of
end item products or services. It includes the basic supplier issues of
specifications, site inspection, selection, rating, certification, and related
quality audits.
Offered Spring
QAS 527.  Quality Measurement.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511. Study of Quality Metrics and their application
throughout the life cycle of a product or service in a business entity. The
study includes Quality Standards, Customer Satisfaction, Quality Tools,
Continuous Improvement, Cost of Quality, Supplier and System auditing.
Offered Summer
QAS 530.  Statistical Quality Control (SQC) for Service Professionals.  (3
Units)  
Techniques for applying Statistical Quality Control (SQC) in controlling
processes and delivering customer services. Examines methods for
establishing and maintaining SPC, QC auditing and sampling and
continuous improvement in various service industries.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 531.  Customer Satisfaction and Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
In-depth study of current methods for obtaining customer satisfaction.
Examines techniques of determining customer needs and development of
customer service strategy Quality Control criteria.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 532.  Quality Assurance of the Service Delivery Process.  (3 Units)  
Analyze processes used to deliver service and methods used to assure
satisfaction. Examines the relationship of Strategic Quality Planning, the
Delivery process, and the usage of TQC and Quality Assurance to achieve
strategic goals.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 534.  Change Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. In depth analysis of current
theory, empirical research and best practices related to effective
implementation of Quality improvement methodologies that result in
desired organizational change, both cultural and operational.
Offered Summer
QAS 535.  Lean Manufacturing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. In depth study of the theory
and practices of lean production. Covers waste minimization,
interrelationships among various components of a system, theories of
leadership and management, and process variability reduction.
Offered Spring
QAS 536.  Six Sigma Principles and Applications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 510 OR QAS 511are required. QAS 511 is
recommended. In depth study of the application of the six sigma
process; covers content of the methodology areas of Define Measure,
Analyze, Improve and Control (DMAIC) including team concepts, project
management, advanced statistical process control and techniques, and
measurement systems analysis.
Offered Summer
QAS 537.  Quality Function Deployment: Understanding Customer
Requirements.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. In depth study of the theory
and application of the quality management process, Quality Function
Deployment, for designing customer requirements into products and
services. Course will evaluate the tools of QFD and study their application
in analysis of customer requirements.
Offered Summer
QAS 538.  Evaluation and Outcome Analysis for Healthcare Delivery.  (3
Units)  
Examines operational and statistical techniques used to monitor, control,
and improve the quality of services provided by healthcare. Considers
the tools of Quality and their direct application to practical situations and
healthcare processes.
Offered Spring
QAS 539.  Good Manufacturing Practices.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. Current Good Manufacturing
Practice regulations to assure quality of medical devices and
pharmaceutical products. Covers development, manufacturing, Quality
management and organizational requirements of medical devices.
Pharmaceutical regulations include personnel, facilities and equipment,
process and product controls, laboratory and reporting.
Offered Spring
QAS 540.  Food and Drug Law.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. This course is designed
to provide a practical interpretation of the food and drug laws and
interpretations for professionals who are providing products or services
in industries regulated by the Federal Food & Drug Administration.
Offered Spring
QAS 541.  Biomedical Quality Control Methods.  (3 Units)  
In depth study of quality control discipline as applied to medical device,
pharmaceutical and/or biologies regulated environments. Topics include
influencing discipline and applying models; methods that monitor,
maintain and/or improve product or service quality; and operational
efficiency.
Offered Fall
QAS 542.  Risk Management in FDA Regulated Industries.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is recommended. Risk Management as applied
to FDA-regulated and other industries (product and process-related);
emphasizes application of risk management tools, plan and program
from inception of product and process including manufacturing process
and field experience of the product, process or service.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 319
QAS 543.  Identification and Mitigation of Suspect and Counterfeit
Items.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is required. Designed to distinguish the
characteristics of suspect/counterfeit items (S/CI) and how to mitigate
and prevent their occurrences through the development of corrective and
preventative action plans into common quality management systems by
applying quality tools and methodologies.,
Offered Summer
QAS 544.  Digital Transforming Quality 4.0 with Industry 4.0.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is required. Examines contemporary processrelated issues and assesses how to develop a digital organizational selfassessment through the application of quality tools and methodologies
that contribute to continuous improvement and organizational excellence
as appropriate in Industry 4.0.
Offered Fall
QAS 545.  Laboratory Conformity Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: QAS 511 is required. Evaluates the various systems for
laboratory accreditation and certification in compliance with industry and
government regulatory requirements to assure safe and reliable products
and services are provided for both industry and consumers through
assessment and appraisal techniques.
Offered Fall
QAS 546.  Case Studies in Quality.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of 18 units in MSQA program. Provides students
an opportunity to apply their MSQA acquired skills to encourage and
enhance dialogue, reinforce comprehension, bridge the gap between
theory and practice, develop analytical and critical thinking skills, and to
solve practical industry-related problems.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 553.  Lean Accounting & Financial Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Focus on the application of Lean Six Sigma concepts and techniques
to help in the problem-solving challenges that confront today's quality
professionals. Builds a strong foundation for the quality professional in
any sector.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 591.  Credit for Prior Learning: Quality Auditing.  (3 Units)  
The Certified Quality Auditor (CQA) is a professional certification from
the American Society of Quality (ASQ). Students holding this certification
satisfy the elective course QAS 525. The ASQ CQA must be current when
entered into the student transcripts.
Offered As needed
QAS 592.  Credit for Prior Learning (CPL) Quality Measurement.  (3
Units)  
The Certified Manager of Quality-Organizational Excellence (CMQ-OE) is a
professional certification from the American Society of Quality. Students
holding this certification satisfy the elective course QAS 527. The ASQ
CMQ-OE must be current when entered into the student transcript.
Offered As needed
QAS 593.  Credit for Prior Learning (CPL) Six Sigma Principles and
Applications.  (3 Units)  
The Certified Six Sigma Black Belt (CSSBB) is a professional certification
from the American Society of Quality (ASQ). Students holding this
certification satisfy the elective course QAS 536. The ASQ CSSBB must
be current when entered into the student transcript.
Offered As needed
QAS 594.  Ind Study In Assurance Science.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisites: Instructor and program Coordinator approval; QAS 510,
QAS 511 and a minimum of five QAS courses recommended. Independent
research or special project to be conducted in consultation with an
instructor.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 595.  Special Topics by Directed Study: Quality Assurance
Applications.  (3 Units)  
A course of study designed cooperatively by student and instructor, and
approved by the Program Coordinator, in which students apply quality
assurance theory and principles to a particular occupational setting
relevant to their professional interests and aspirations. Repeatable
course. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Infrequent
QAS 598.  Directed Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of 18 units toward degree and GWAR. Directed
reading and research, designed cooperatively by student and instructor
and approved by the program coordinator, emphasizing application of
Quality Assurance theory and principles to a particular occupational
setting.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
QAS 599.  Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of all other coursework in the degree program.
The goal of all students enrolled in this culminating experience course
is to complete a project under the guidance of an assigned instructor.
It is the culminating learning experience of the program, and includes
a significant written report. To meet the standards established by the
faculty, the project must demonstrate a rigorous scientific approach to
the quality profession.
Offered Fall, Spring
QAS 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their coursework but not their
thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who may have other
requirements remaining for completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program director required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
Radiologic Imaging Sciences (RIS)
RIS 501.  RIS Physics and Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Basic sciences of radiologic professions including physics,
instrumentation, data capture and management. Includes discussions of
modalities in radiography, nuclear medicine, radiation therapy, ultrasound,
and CVIS.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 502.  RIS Sciences I.  (3 Units)  
Imaging techniques, technological advances in the radiologic/imaging
sciences, patient care trends, and the role of a radiologic and imaging
sciences professional.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 503.  RIS Sciences II.  (3 Units)  
Integrated modalities in the radiologic professions such as CT, MRI,
SPECT/CT, PET/MRI, IMRT, 3D imaging and teleradiology. Healthcare
legal, regulatory, and ethical issues are also discussed.
Offered Summer
320 Radiologic Imaging Sciences (RIS)
RIS 510.  RIS Research Methods and Data Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to radiologic and imaging science research methods, data
analysis, as well as current research trends and publications in the field.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 511.  Informatics in Radiologic Imaging Sciences.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to Health Information Technology (HIT), Radiology
Information Systems (RIS) and Picture Archive and Communication
Systems (PACS). Includes basic information system technology as well
as clinical and administrative application of healthcare information
systems in radiologic and imaging sciences.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 520.  RIS Management.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to principles of management with emphasis on it
applications in radiologic and imaging department administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 521.  RIS Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to principles of leadership with emphasis on its applications
in radiologic and imaging department administration.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 522.  Clinical Practice Accreditation.  (3 Units)  
Application for and maintenance of clinical professional accreditation of
clinical operations. Emphasis is on the role of the radiology administrator.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 530.  Pedagogy and Andragogy in RIS.  (3 Units)  
Principles and practice of effective teaching, curriculum development and
evaluation in radiologic and imaging sciences.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 531.  Radiologic and Imaging Sciences Program Administration.  (3
Units)  
Orientation to academic program directorship, faculty development,
student affairs, academic affairs, the higher education system in the
US and how colleges and universities in the US work. Topics include
scholarship, advisement, teaching as well as faculty recruitment retention
and development.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 532.  RIS Academic Program Accreditation.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to accreditation of radiologic and imaging sciences
academic programs. Topics include outcome assessments,
benchmarking, Self-Study preparation, applying for and maintaining
accreditation, and accreditation site visits.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 540.  CT Physics, Instrumentation and Procedures.  (3 Units)  
In-depth study of the physical principles and instrumentation in CT.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 541.  Advanced Topics in CT.  (3 Units)  
CT artifacts, reconstruction algorithms, 3-D imaging, angiography and
radiation safety are discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 542.  CT Clinical Applications.  (3 Units)  
A discussion on clinical application of CT. Topics include central nervous
system, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, genitourinary, hepatobiliary,
musculoskeletal, and cardiac systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 550.  MRI Physics & Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
In-depth study of the physical principles and instrumentation in MRI.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 551.  Advanced Topics in MRI.  (3 Units)  
MRI artifacts, magnetic resonance angiography and MRI safety are
discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 552.  MRI Clinical Applications.  (3 Units)  
A discussion on clinical application of MRI. Topics include central
nervous system, cardiovascular, gastrointestinal, genitourinary,
hepatobiliary, musculoskeletal, and cardiac systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 560.  Ultrasound Physics and Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Emphasizes principles of physics and instrumentation of diagnostic
ultrasound. Topics including sound wave parameters, energy transfer
through wave propagation, surface reflection processes, and transducer
construction. Includes an overview of A-mode, B-mode, and M-mode.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 561.  Advanced Topics in Ultrasound.  (3 Units)  
Discussion of computer technology and the instrumentation used to
create and store the ultrasound image and and introduction to fluid
dynamics, and the spectral, color and amplitude related to Doppler.
Includes discussions about echo cardiology.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 562.  Ultrasound Clinical Applications.  (3 Units)  
Topics include abdominal, OB/GYN, cardiac and vascular sonographic
techniques.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 570.  PET/CT Physics and Instrumentation.  (3 Units)  
Introduces the physical principles and instrumentation used in computed
tomography and PET. Topics include the physics associated with PET,
PET technology, an overview of computed tomography technology, and
computer reconstructions algorithms.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 571.  PET Radiopharmaceuticals.  (3 Units)  
A discussion of the radiopharmaceuticals and CT contrast used in
PET/CT. Emphasis is on chemistry of positron-emitting nuclides
and radiopharmaceuticals, the physiological interactions of
radiopharmaceuticals, and iodinated contrast media in patients. Patient
safety, patient screening, and radiation safety are included.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 572.  PET/CT Clinical Applications.  (3 Units)  
Encompasses the interrelated aspects of performing PET/CT procedures.
Includes anatomy, physiology and pathology of the organ systems,
patient preparation and care, imaging instrumentation and protocols.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 580.  Radiation Therapy Physics and Treatment Planning.  (3 Units)  
Basic principles of ionizing radiation, radiation dosimety, imaging
equipment, radiation therapy equipment and radiation detectors.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 581.  Principles and Practices of Radiation Therapy I.  (3 Units)  
The fundamentals of clinical radiation oncology are discussed including
the medical, biological, and pathological aspect as well as technical
aspects. Topics also include the diagnosis, interpreting and implementing
the treatment prescription, and documentation of treatment parameters
for various physiological systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
RIS 582.  Principles and Practices of Radiation Therapy II.  (3 Units)  
A continuation of RIS 581. Introduces Proton beam therapy,
Intraoperative Radiotherapy (IORT), and Gamma Knife radiosurgery.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 321
RIS 590.  Practicum.  (1-3 Units)  
Observing and applying discipline specific clinical, educational or
managerial principles in a patient care or academic setting. Restricted to
majors.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
RIS 597.  Directed Reading.  (3 Units)  
Extensive reading in selected areas under the guidance of a faculty
mentor. Restricted to majors. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
RIS 598.  Directed Research.  (3 Units)  
Extensive research on a subject related to the student's area of
concentration under the guidance of a faculty advisor. Restricted to
majors. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
RIS 599.  Capstone Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Enrolled in the final semester of the degree program. A
radiologic science related, practical project proposed by the student and
approved by the advisor.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
RIS 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed course work but not their thesis,
project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other requirements
remaining for completion of their degree, may maintain continuous
attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate program
coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Reading (RDG)
RDG 501.  Foundations of Reading Instruction and Research.  (3 Units)  
This foundation course emphasizes advanced study of literacy
research, theory, and practice related to components of the literacy
acquisition process (oral language; reading comprehension, fluency, word
recognition, and vocabulary development; written language content form,
and use).
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 502.  Word Study and Fluency.  (3 Units)  
Use an inquiry-based approach to understand the challenges of language
learning and word study with diverse populations. Includes a systematic
analysis of word formation, syntax, semantics, grammar and spelling in
the English language.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 503.  Comprehension and Study Skills.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: RDG 501 and RDG 502 are required. Current theory and
research on the relationship between comprehension and literacy
acquisition / proficiency are explored. Instructional / intervention
strategies and materials to support writing and comprehension at the
early, intermediate, and fluent levels are studied.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 505.  Reading Fieldwork / Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: RDG 501, RDG 502, RDG 503 and RDG 504 are required.
Field experience with beginning readers, English learners and students
with learning difficulties. Includes methods for meeting the needs of
struggling readers and / or writers at both early and intrmediate levels,
and the tutoring or small-group instruction of these students.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 510.  Advanced Study of Early Writing and Literacy.  (3 Units)  
An advanced analysis of classical and current literacy theory and practice
is conducted. The analysis includes examining he relationship between
current issues, emerging research findings in early literacy and related
disciplines, and theoretical models of early literacy acquisition.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 511.  Advanced Study of Adolescent Writing and Literacy.  (3 Units)  
An advanced analysis of literacy theory and practice examining the
relationship between issues in adolescent literacy, emerging research in
adolescent literacy and related disciplines, the needs of diverse student
populations, and the psychological and sociolinguistic aspects of writing
and reading.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 512.  Supervision, Leadership and Evaluation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: RDG 510 and RDG 511 are required. Examines varied roles
and responsibilities of the Specialist, including intervention, curriculum
development, supervision, program development and leadership. A
comprehensive, staff development model will be developed and a
segment of that model will be presented in a staff development format.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 513.  Specialized Advanced Study of Reading.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: RDG 510, RDG 511 and RDG 512 are required. Students
choose a focus in biliteracy, special education, African American English,
adolescents or English Learners and conduct an action research project
in that area. Students implement, analyze and report of the action
research project.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 514.  Advanced Clinical Experience.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: RDG 510, RDG 511, RDG 512, and RDG 513 are required. A
comprehensive intervention based on formal and informal assessments
and a research-based, balanced model of literacy instruction is designed
for a student experiencing severe difficulty with literacy acquisition.
The intervention includes interations with guardians, instructor and
classmates.
Offered Fall, Spring
RDG 592.  Qualitative / Quantitative Research in Reading.  (3 Units)  
Course in both quantitative and qualitative resarch in reading and literacy.
It is designed to give students the opportunity to show mastery of social
science methodologies.
Offered Fall, Spring
Recreation & Leisure Studies (REC)
REC 100.  Dimensions Of Leisure.  (3 Units)  
Investigation of leisure, recreation, and personal and social adjustments
to leisure. Examination of use and misuse of leisure. Students develop
personal philosophy of recreation and increase awareness of impact of
leisure on American society.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
REC 260.  Outdoor Education.  (1 Units)  
Introduction to outdoor education activities including camping, hiking,
backpacking, environmental discovery and selected outdoor survival
skills. Emphasis on leadership techniques, group dynamics, team building
activities, program planning and evaluation. Field trips required. Two
hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
322 School Leadership (SLP)
School Leadership (SLP)
SLP 550.  Induction Preliminary Leaders.  (2 Units)  
Students will develop an induction plan designed to meet the individual's
needs as an instructional leader. The induction plan will include the
assessment of the individual's professional needs to become and urban
school leader. Students will analyze the CCTC Program Standards and
the ISLLC national standards and plan and create their professional
development plan.
Offered Fall
SLP 551.  Visionary Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Recommended prerequisite: SLP 550 or concurrent enrollment. Students
facilitate the development, articulation, implementation and stewardship
of a vision of teaching and learning that is shared and supported by the
school community. Coursework and fieldwork focus on the vision audit
through collecting data, constructing profiles, and aligning resources.
Offered Fall
SLP 552.  Instructional Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Recommended prerequisites: SLP 550 and SLP 551 or concurrent
enrollment. Students learn how to advocate, nurture and sustain a
school culture and instructional program conducive to student learning
and staff professional growth. Coursework and fieldwork focus on
the implementation of state adopted academic content standards,
frameworks as well as assessment and accountability systems.
Offered Fall
SLP 553.  Organizational Leadership and Resource Management.  (3
Units)  
Recommended prerequisites: SLP 550, SLP 551 and SLP 552 or
concurrent enrollment. Students learn how to ensure the management
of the organization, operations and resources for a safe, efficient, and
effective learning environment. Coursework and fieldwork focus on the
study and application of organizational theory that reflects effective
leadership.
Offered Spring
SLP 554.  Collaborative Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Recommended prerequisites: SLP 550, SLP 551, SLP 552, and SLP553.
Students will learn to work effectively with families, caregivers and
community members; recognize the goals and aspirations of diverse
families; respond to diverse community interests and needs. Through
coursework and fieldwork, student will examine and evaluate their
attitudes toward people of different races, cultures, and ethnic
backgrounds. Students will focus on improving student achievement
regardless of race, culture, or socio-economic status.
Offered Spring
SLP 555.  Ethical Leadership.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SLP 550, SLP 551, SLP 552 and SLP 553. Students
will examine, practice and model a personal code of ethics, including
protecting the rights and confidentiality of students, staff, and families.
Students will practice professional leadership capacity, including shared
decision-making, problem-solving and conflict management and foster
those skills in others. Through coursework and fieldwork, students will
have multiple opportunities to model personal and professional ethics,
integrity, justice and fairness.
Offered Spring
SLP 556.  Political, Social, Economic, Legal and Cultural Leadership.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: SLP 550, SLP 551, SLP 552 and SLP 553. The student will
learn about political, societal, economic, legal and cultural influences
on schools. Through these interconnections, the student develops the
ability to understand, respond to, and influence the larger political, social,
economic, legal and cultural context of schools and leadership. The
student will learn how to view himself or herself as a leader and as a
member of a team by engaging in course work and field work that provide
opportunities to both lead and work collaboratively.
Offered Fall
SLP 557.  Post-Assessment, Preliminary Leadership.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: SLP 554, SLP 555, and SLP 556 or concurrent enrollment.
Students provide evidence of their competency in all CCTC Program
Standards and all six of the CPSELs. The course-ending formative
assessment and program-ending summative assessments of their fieldbased project and portfolio will become part of the students' school
leadership electronic portfolios. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
SLP 560.  Fieldwork A, Preliminary Leadership.  (2 Units)  
Recommended corequisite: SLP 550, SLP 551, SLP 552, and SLP 553.
Supervised field experiences at the school level to include actual job
performance in both supervision and administrative work. Students will
demonstrate competencies specified in approved programs. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall
SLP 561.  Fieldwork B, Preliminary Leadership.  (2 Units)  
Recommended corequisite: SLP 554, SLP 555, SLP 556 and SLP 557.
Supervised field experiences at the school level to include actual job
performance in both supervision and administrative work. Students will
demonstrate competencies specified in approved programs. Second
semester of two part course. CR/NC grading.
Offered Spring
SLP 580.  Professional School Leadership: Pre-Assessment,
Induction.  (2 Units)  
The candidate, the university faculty member, and the site mentor
together develop a professional credential induction plan for the support
and professional development for the candidate based on the six themes
of the 2004 CCTC Professional Standards.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SLP 581.  Principles of Professional Administrative Practice: Six
Themes.  (3 Units)  
Corequisite: SLP 580. This course has a strong conceptual base and is
organized to address principles of administrative practice per CCTC's six
thematic areas. Specialization and individualization occur by determining
specialized strands and individualized learning opportunities as specified
in the candidate's induction plan. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SLP 582.  Professional School Leadership: Post-Assessment.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: SLP 580 and SLP 581. The expectations developed in
candidate's induction plan aligned are assessed to determine if the CCTC
professional standards are satisfied. Candidate expectations will be
different for each candidate, depending on past experiences, current job
assignments, and future development goals and plans.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 323
Science, Math and Tech (SMT)
SMT 310.  Science and Technology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. An
assessment of the interrelationships of Science and Technology. Study of
the development of technological advances and the scientific principles
behind them.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SMT 312.  Natural Disasters.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. Impact
of natural events on human activities and vice versa. Mankind's uneasy
relationship with atmosphere, oceans and not-so-solid Earth. Will include
study of earthquakes, volcanoes, floods, landslides, tsunamis, climate
change, hurricanes, tornadoes and wildfires.
Offered Fall, Spring
SMT 314.  Introduction to Cosmology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. An
introduction to the major theories of the origin and structure of the
universe and the evidence for them, with attention to the way earlier ideas
have been incorporated in modern thought. The Big Bang Theory will be
examined in depth.
Offered Fall, Spring
SMT 410.  Development of Scientific Thinking and Theories.  (3 Units)  
Reviews the processes that have lead to the development of significant
theories in science. Historical and scientific look at such developments,
illustrating the adaptability of the scientific method. Addresses the
philosophical implications of such developments and their impact on
society.
Offered Fall, Spring
SMT 416.  Earth Science For Teacher.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. Study of
planet Earth including such topics as geology, volcanoes, earthquakes,
fossils, oceanography, weather, and astronomy as appropriate for
elementary and junior high school teachers. Two hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
Social & Behavioral Sciences (SBS)
SBS 316.  Social Change.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. Analysis
of processes of social change, cultural development and cultural
persistence using social science perspectives. Examples of topics
include cultural evolution, industrialization, modernization, acculturation
and assimilation.
Offered As needed
SBS 318.  Cultural Pluralism:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of lower division General Education. Analysis
of cultural diversity and the processes of cultural interaction, interethnic relations and social integration on the community, national and
international levels. Repeatable for up to nine units with different topics.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
Sociology (SOC)
SOC 101.  The Individual In Society.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the study of self, socialization, and social interaction.
Interpersonal relations and the structure of social roles; deviance and
normality in everyday life.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 102.  Understanding Social Relationships in a Global Perspective.  (3
Units)  
Dynamics and histories of basic institutions of society such as the
family, work, economy, education, class, crime, race, culture and gender.
Course content focuses on the global and comparative aspects of these
institutions.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 220.  Analytical Statistics.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Algebra I is recommended. Statistical techniques for the
description and analysis of sociological data. Tabular, graphic, and
parametric analytical procedures. Three hours lecture and three hours
laboratory per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 302.  Workshop in Social Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor is required; SOC 220, SOC 305,
SOC 355 are recommended. Workshop in research methods and theory
applied to actual research projects culminating in public reports.
Repeatable course. Six hours of workshop per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 303.  Qualitative Methods.  (3 Units)  
Use and application of unstructured, structured, and participant
observation methods to sociological phenomena. Unobtrusive and nonreactive procedures of research.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 304.  Computer Applications.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SOC 220 or its equivalent is recommended. Applications of
computers in the Social Sciences; data processing, modeling, simulation,
data base management, bibliographic searches. On-line and batch
applications. One hour of lecture and four hours of activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 305.  Methods Of Soc Research.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: SOC 220. Examination of methods employed in the
investigation of sociological phenomena. Consideration of the research
process as a whole, including quantitative and qualitative techniques.
Includes supplemental workshop. Three hours of lecture and two hours of
activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 306.  Program Evaluation.  (3 Units)  
Emphasis on the role of program evaluation in decision making,
improvement, and accountability. Students will become involved in
evaluation activities.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
SOC 307.  Micro Computer Data Base Applications in Social Science.  (3
Units)  
Exploration of individualized data base systems for social science.
Creation and management of data base files, both user generated and
commercial software. Emphasis on the usefulness of the microcomputer
in storing, accessing and analyzing social science data, report generation
and accessing mainframe archives. One hour of lecture and four hours of
activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
324 Sociology (SOC)
SOC 308.  Field Applications Socio.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
SOC 309.  Writing Skills in Sociology.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to basic research and presentational skills of sociology
and social and behavioral sciences. Skills development in research and
writing, using library and other data sources, organizing projects, writing
reports. One hour of lecture and four hours of activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 310.  Social Stratification.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
SOC 311.  Global Organizations and Social Processes.  (3 Units)  
Examination of processes of globalization and contemporary social
systems in a global context. This includes corporations, education, the
family, the global economy, the military, religion and social movement
organizations. Attention given to patriarchy, post-colonialism, race and
ethnicity.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 315.  Sociology Of Work.  (3 Units)  
Sociological analysis of work in industrial society. Examination of the
labor force, industrial organization, occupational roles, and careers.
Consideration of impact of technological change.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
SOC 316.  Sociology Of Adult Life: Aging.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SOC 101 or SOC 102 is required. The developmental
processes occurring throughout the life-cycle with special focus on
problems and issues surrounding middle and old age. Utilization of
demographic, cross-cultural, family, community, and societal studies to
explore the social dimensions of aging.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 317.  Class Status Power & Work.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent, All terms
SOC 320.  The Family.  (3 Units)  
Study of the social processes and structural patterns affecting
contemporary family life in American society.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
SOC 321.  Sociology Of Education.  (3 Units)  
Examination of the organization and functions of educational institutions,
comparison of American educational systems with educational systems
in industrial and developing nations. Special attention given to the impact
of schools on the life choices of culturally diverse groups.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 322.  Social Environment of Education.  (3 Units)  
An integrative study of socialization factors of the young child from
various backgrounds and patterns of relationships between the teacher,
parent, and community figures in culturally diverse situations.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 325.  Sociology Of Religion.  (3 Units)  
Study of religion from sociological perspective: how religions are enacted
and expressed as social and cultural events; the relation of religion to
social structures; emphasis of the awareness of religion as an aspect of
complex multiethnic society.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 326.  Sociology Of Medicine.  (3 Units)  
Social and cultural aspects of health, health behavior, and health
organizations. Research on the distribution of disease in society,
organization of health professions, social change, health care, stress and
disease. Examination of social and cultural factors affecting utilization
and structure of health services.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 327.  Sociology of Sports.  (3 Units)  
In this course, sports is examined as a social institution. This course
provides an analysis of the organization and social functions of sport,
popular sports media and history. It examines how sports challenges
and reproduces cultural ideas about masculinity, femininity, sexual
orientation, race/ethnicity, social class, work, fun, achievement,
competition, violence and aggression.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 328.  Social Agencies: Practice and Power.  (3 Units)  
Study of the sources of power and the practical function of social
agencies evaluated in their social context and for their impact upon the
individual.
Offered Spring
SOC 331.  Minority Racial and Ethnic Relations.  (3 Units)  
Investigation of current American racial and ethnic problems in worldwide and historical perspective.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 334.  Women In Society.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the changing role of women in different historical and cultural
settings. Emphasis on the conflict women face from the value and
belief systems of their cultures, those of their broader society and their
social identity as women. The course will draw on material from diverse
cultures, including both industrialized and developing countries.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 335.  Social Movements.  (3 Units)  
A study of major social movements with varying specific emphasis on
topical problems or relevant issues from semester to semester. For
example, a specific semester may be devoted to Social Movements: Black
Awareness; or Social Movements: Utopias. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SOC 337.  Critical Sociology Through Film.  (3 Units)  
Students will examine how documentary and non-documentary film
depicts and addresses social issues while communicating sociological
theories and concepts in tangible visual formats. Through this
process students will learn to critically examine media images using a
sociological lens.
Offered Spring, Summer
SOC 340.  Social Psychology: Sociological Perspective.  (3 Units)  
The reciprocal influence that individuals and groups exert on one another
from a sociological perspective. Focus on language and other symbolic
processes, role taking and role playing, and the importance of the selfconcept in interpersonal behavior.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 341.  Seminar In Small Groups.  (3 Units)  
Study and discussion of social interaction in small groups. Historical and
theoretical background, research findings, leadership, and the small group
as a social system. Classroom exercises in group dynamics. Three hours
of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
2024-25 University Catalog 325
SOC 355.  Modern Sociological Theories.  (4 Units)  
Analysis of contemporary sociological theories with attention to
historical origins. Relationship of theory to research and theory
construction. Includes supplemental theory building workshop. Three
hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 362.  Gangs and Adolescent Subcultures.  (3 Units)  
Examines gang phenomena nationally and regionally. Focus on
organizational, behavioral, etiological, and preventive factors associated
with development and perpetuation. Street, motorcycle, prison, ethnic and
other subcultural formations are examined.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SOC 363.  Sociology of Alcohol and Other Drug Use.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to drugs and alcohol as a contemporary social problem.
Sociological analysis of drug use and abuse. Course includes systematic
review of policy implications and therapeutic applications of sociology of
drug use, especially chemical dependency and alcoholism.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SOC 364.  Corrections.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of various sociological aspects of correctional operations:
correctional settings, institutional life, types of correctional programs,
rehabilitation, recidivism, alternatives to prisons, probation and
prevention, the adjudicative process, and theoretical and empirical
considerations of correctional systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 365.  Deviant Behavior.  (3 Units)  
Consideration of deviant behavior. Study of the forms and processes of
deviance, and the distribution of its occurrence. A systematic analysis
of particular kinds of violations of normative rules as related to general
processes of interaction in everyday social activities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SOC 367.  Sociology Of Law.  (3 Units)  
The social context within which legal systems function, the effectiveness
of law as a mechanism of social control, the relationship between law
and social change, and the social basis for the administration of justice
and punishment.
Offered Spring, Summer
SOC 368.  Criminology.  (3 Units)  
Theories of the genesis of crime: patterns of criminal behavior; nature
of criminal organizations; analysis of relationship of crime to the social
structure; criminal statistics and crime rates: police and the criminal
justice system.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 369.  Juvenile Delinquency.  (3 Units)  
Social context, definition, implications, and causes of juvenile
delinquency as a social phenomenon; analysis of factors associated with
delinquent behavior. Problems of adjustment of delinquents and factors
in treatment and in post-treatment adjustment.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer, All terms
SOC 370.  Moot Court.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: POL 304 and THE 120 are recommended. Training course
of the Stanley Mosk Moot Court Competition. Case study of a selected
problem and its progress through the legal system. Emphasis on
difference between social and legal solutions. Students argue case
before attorneys and judges. Repeatable course for up to three times.
Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 380.  Urban Sociology.  (3 Units)  
This class examines the general courses, processes, and consequences
of urban development. Interdisciplinary perspectives and research
methodologies for studying urban settings will be reviewed.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 381.  Field Studies in Urban Problems.  (3 Units)  
Field experiences in the urban setting, with special emphasis upon
investigation and understanding of the human and social dimensions of
urban problems. Two hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 382.  Sociology of Latina/o Communitites.  (3 Units)  
Offers offers introductory discussion and analysis of topics that pertain
to Latinas/os throughout North, Central, and South America and the
Caribbean. Explores experiences of different Latina/o communities.
These include colonialism, post-colonialism, gender, immigration, race,
etc.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 383.  Black Communities: Class, Status and Power.  (3 Units)  
An analysis of the structure of the Black community: class, economic
and political power, the role of leadership, and the conditions for social
development.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 384.  Community Organizing.  (3 Units)  
Study and project of community change. Analysis of the global context
of local community organizing, including economic restructuring,
environmental justice, immigration and the role of the state. Theories of
community engagement and multi-cultural alliances, with an emphasis
on women's roles.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 386.  Sociology of the Helping Professions.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the importance of social and environmental factors within the
helping context. Particular emphasis on variety of settings for helping,
and on issues of social ethics and cultural sensitivities.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SOC 387.  Theory and Research in Globalization.  (3 Units)  
This course provides students with an understanding of the basic
theories and concepts related to the economic, social, political, and
cultural processes of globalization. Students will work on a research
project on a global issue.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
SOC 395.  Special Topics In Sociology.  (3 Units)  
Intensive sociological analysis of a topic of special interest to both the
faculty member and students. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 401.  Inferential Statistics.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: SOC 220 or its equivalent is required; algebra is
recommended. Inferential statistical techniques as tools for analysis of
sociological data. The logic of statistical inference. Parameter estimation
and hypothesis testing. Three hours lecture and three hours laboratory
per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 402.  Multivariate Analysis.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisites: SOC 220 or its equivalent is required; SOC 401 is
recommended. Consideration of the integral involvement of statistics
in research, with special emphasis on multivariate techniques. Criteria
for selection of appropriate techniques. Three hours of lecture and three
hours laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent
326 Sociology (SOC)
SOC 408.  Survey Research.  (3 Units)  
Recommended Prerequisite: SOC 220. Emphasis on the skills of survey
research in decision making, improvement, and data collection. Students
will become involved in survey research activities.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. A reading program of selected topics
conducted under the supervision of a faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 496.  Internship in Sociology.  (3-6 Units)  
Provides students with supervised pre-professional experience in a
community agency, social justice or human rights organization.Â This
internship introduces students to employment possibilities and social
change work while they receive valuable field experience and build
community contacts.Â  Repeatable up to 9 units.
Offered As needed
SOC 498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
SOC 500.  Professional Development.  (3 Units)  
Provides an overview of university and department requirements
for degree, campus resources, and exploration of career paths for
Sociologists
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 502.  Graduate Workshop in Research and Theory.  (3 Units)  
Practicum in theory and research culminating in preparation of a public
report. Entire experience is based on professional research projects in the
Social Systems Research Center. Student is expected to assume some
supervisory responsibility. Repeatable course. Six hours of workshop per
week.
Offered Spring
SOC 503.  Seminar in Ethnographic Analysis in Sociology.  (3 Units)  
Ethnographic fieldwork and analysis in Sociology. Theories and
techniques of field observations and methods of analysis of
observational data, including field notes, documents, and audiovisual records. Concentration on methods of doing sociology so as to
extrapolate principles of social behavior from observation of on-going
activities in organized settings. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
SOC 505.  Seminar in Sociological Research.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SOC 305 or equivalent are required; SOC 401 or SOC 402,
SOC 403 and SOC 407 are recommended; concurrent enrollment in
SOC 506 required for Sociology graduate students, recommended for
all others. Advanced study of sociological research techniques and
strategies. Consideration of research design and analysis as they relate
to theory testing. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
SOC 506.  Laboratory in Sociological Research.  (1 Units)  
Co-requisites: SOC 505 is required for Sociology graduate students and
recommended for all others. Laboratory exercises in the application of
research techniques, including formulation of the research problem, case
selection, instrument design, observation, data reduction and processing,
analysis, and interpretation. Three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Spring
SOC 511.  Seminar in Social Organizations.  (3 Units)  
An examination of the basic forms of social organization in historical and
comparative perspective. The basic social scientific conceptions of social
organization will be compared and contrasted in terms of methodological
and policy implications. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
SOC 518.  Seminar in Marriage and the Family.  (3 Units)  
A sociological examination of contemporary social issues and changes
affecting marriage and family life in American society. Normative and
alternative family and marital life styles will be explored. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Fall
SOC 529.  Seminar in Social Gerontology.  (3 Units)  
A detailed sociological discussion and presentation of theoretical and
methodological issues and problems in the field of social gerontology.
Fieldwork will be conducted. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 550.  Seminar in Interaction Processes.  (3 Units)  
Experience in both the theoretical and practical study of microsociology.
Stress on the small group, with specific concern for problems such as
communication, leadership, decision-making, gamesmanship, equilibrium,
and change. Relevant research literature reviewed, and laboratory
experiments in interaction processes conducted. Three hours of seminar
per week.
Offered Spring
SOC 555.  Seminar in Sociological Theory.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SOC 355. A detailed examination of classical and
contemporary sociological theory. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Fall
SOC 560.  Seminar in the Sociology of Racial and Ethnic Relations.  (3
Units)  
A systematic inquiry into the experience of racial and ethnic minorities in
the United States . Analysis of the sociological literature on interethnic
relations, ethnic stratification and inequality. Implications for social
policy. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
SOC 561.  Seminar in Aging: Minorities and Special Groups.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of the situation of the elderly within selected population groups
including the black aged, Mexican-American aged, the aging woman, the
rural and urban poor aged. Community resource persons will be invited to
participate. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 563.  Seminar in the Sociology of Alcohol and Other Drug Use.  (3
Units)  
Social scientific approach to chemical substance use, misuse and
dependency. Analysis of contemporary and historical definitions of
alcohol and drug use. Origin, maintenance and transformation of patterns
of drug use. Social responses to abuse and politics of use and abuse.
Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Infrequent
SOC 567.  Sem In Sociology Of Law.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
SOC 568.  Seminar In Criminology.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of specific issues in criminology. Issues that may be considered
include the following: causative theories, major types of crime, formal
crime control agencies, and prevention and control. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 327
SOC 569.  Seminar in Juvenile Delinquency.  (3 Units)  
Investigation of the causes, nature and consequences of Juvenile
Delinquency from a sociological perspective. Reading and discussion of
theoretical studies and empirical research. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Fall
SOC 595.  Special Topics in Sociology.  (3 Units)  
A course designed to consider sociological analysis of a variety of special
interest topics. The repeatable nature of the course makes it possible for
students to work with more than one instructor on a topic of particular
interest to the student. Course may be repeated once for a total of 6
units. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
SOC 596.  Practicum In Teaching Sociolog.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Classified graduate standing. Supervised experience in
teaching Sociology. Techniques and skills appropriate to instruction
at the college level. Instructional and valuative experiences under
supervision of sociology faculty. Repeatable for credit for a maximum of
six units.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 597.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent reading under direction of supervising faculty member in
Sociology. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 598.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent research under direction of supervising faculty member in
Sociology. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 599.  Graduate Capstone in Sociology.  (1-5 Units)  
Prerequisites: SOC 505, SOC 555, SOC 511 or SOC 550 and Advancement
to Candidacy in Sociology Graduate Program is required. Supervised
thesis, special project, or comprehensive examination in sociology.
Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SOC 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their coursework but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Spanish (SPA)
SPA 110.  Beginning Spanish I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in SPA 100. Basic instruction in
Spanish. Training in speaking, listening, reading, and writing for students
who have had no previous work in Spanish.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SPA 111.  Beginning Spanish II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 305 or equivalent. Translation from Spanish to English
and English to Spanish with practical application for journalistic,
advertising, commercial, and governmental activities. Introduction to the
art of consecutive translation.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SPA 115.  Intensive Beginning Spanish.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Grade of C or better in SPA 100. An accelerated course in
beginning Spanish; emphasis on speaking and listening comprehension.
Development of elementary reading and writing skills. Active participation
and engagement. The equivalent of SPA 110 plus SPA 111.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 151.  Introduction to Hispanic Culture.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to Hispanic Culture. A designated geographical area studies
course focusing on patterns of culture in the Spanish-speaking world.
Topics will vary from semester to semester; for example, Mexico and the
Southwestern U.S., or Contemporary Spain. Conducted in English.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 220.  Intermediate Spanish I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 111 or equivalent. A continuation of Spanish 111, with
emphasis on oral communication skills.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
SPA 221.  Intermediate Spanish II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 220 or equivalent. A continuation of Spanish 220, with
emphasis on reading and writing.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 230.  Spanish Conversation.  (3 Units)  
Intermediate-level Spanish conversation with special emphasis on
increasing the oral proficiency of second-language learners of Spanish.
Conversational functions practiced will include describing and identifying
people, places, things and events, requesting and providing information,
and expressing opinions. Students will be exposed to various aspects of
Spanish-speaking cultures.
Offered Fall
SPA 280.  Grammar for Spanish Composition.  (3 Units)  
Students advance their knowledge of Spanish grammar in the areas
of orthography, accentuation, punctuation, parts of speech, verb
morphology, sentence types. Students will study essay types, with an
emphasis on narration.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 302.  Business Spanish.  (3 Units)  
The principal objective of this course is to prepare students to use
Spanish for business. Topics for this course include: 1) informal vs.
formal Spanish; 2) the communicative purpose: informative vs persuasive
presentations; 3) technology and business; 4) the language of finance;
5) legal language for business; and 7) ethical considerations and their
reflection on language use.
Offered Spring
SPA 305.  Advanced Composition, Syntax and Stylistics I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 280 or equivalent. A reading, composition, and
discussion course concerned with elements of style and syntax, with
emphasis on expository and argumentative writing by the students.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 306.  Advanced Composition, Syntax and Stylistics II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 280 or equivalent is required. A reading, composition
and discussion course that focuses on expository writing and literary or
linguistic analysis. Three hours of lecture per week.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 310.  Romantic Love in the Western Tradition.  (3 Units)  
Students evaluate the construct of love using historical, aesthetic, and
social perspectives, how it defines psychological patterns, develops
styles in literature, is the center of some philosophical approaches, and is
linked to values and ethical definitions in contemporary movements.
Offered Infrequent
328 Spanish (SPA)
SPA 311.  Structure Of Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 280. An analysis of the sounds, formations, and
routines of the language, focusing on global characteristics of Spanish
that English speakers need to acquire. Selected language acquisition
problems of English speakers featured.
Offered Fall
SPA 312.  Hispanic Literature, Art and Culture.  (3 Units)  
Historical development and the cultural artistic production created by
Hispanic authors and artists through an interdisciplinary perspective.
Study of artwork, historical texts, music, and literature to expand by
discussing the links of cultural production that develop in Latin America.
Offered Spring
SPA 313.  Encountering the Other.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of major contemporary issues will be undertaken from a
humanistic perspective about encountering the other in the Western
tradition. Historical, literary, musical, philosophical, and art works will be
introduced to develop critical thinking about how diverse groups interact.
Offered Spring even
SPA 318.  Movements of Latin America.  (3 Units)  
This interdisciplinary and pluricultural course introduces students to the
contemporary social and sociolinguistic movements of Latin America.
It analyzes the indigenous movements for linguistic and cultural rights,
and populist movements and other movements through their cultures,
narratives, rhetoric, and discourse.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPA 330.  Interpreting Hispanic Literature.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 305. Analysis and interpretation of representative
Hispanic prose, poetry, and drama.
Offered Fall
SPA 340.  Practical Spanish for Interpreters and Translators.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study of a single author, a literary movement, a literary genre,
or a single literary work, or an issue/topic in linguistics. Repeatable with
different topics for credit. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered Spring
SPA 341.  Advanced Conversation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 221 or equivalent. Intensive conversation leading to
fluency in the use of academic Spanish. The course aims to develop a
comprehensive vocabulary which prepares the student for persuasive
and oratory speeches, as well as for upper division linguistics and
literature courses. Useful for public service and the bilingual/crosscultural credential program.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 350.  Contemporary Hispanic Culture: Spain.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 280 or equivalent, or concurrent enrollment. An area
studies course focusing on patterns of culture in contemporary Spain .
Offered Spring
SPA 351.  Contemporary Hispanic Culture: Spanish-Speaking
America.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 280 or equivalent, or concurrent enrollment. A
designated geographical area studies course focusing on patterns of
culture in the Spanish-speaking world. Specific topics may vary from
semester to semester. Norms, intergroup relations, institutions, language,
and societal values of rural and urban people.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 353.  Cinema of the Spanish-Speaking World.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPA 280 and SPA 305 are required. SPA 351 is
recommended. This course is designed to introduce students to the
cultures and societies of Spain and Latin America through the cinematic
work of Spanish-speaking film productions.
Offered Fall
SPA 398S.  Directed Research in Spanish.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
SPA 400.  Teaching School Subject Matter in Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Knowledge of Spanish or consent of instructor. Vocabulary
and materials used in elementary or secondary schools for teaching
reading, writing, mathematics, science, and social studies in Spanish.
Aspects and problems of language acquisition and linguistic transitions
made by English speakers acquiring Spanish proficiency. Required for
credential candidates.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 414.  Spanish Phonology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 311. A beginning course in the segmental and
suprasegmental phonetic systems: phonological pronunciation
phenomena of standard and regional Spanish.
Offered Spring
SPA 430.  Spanish Morphology.  (3 Units)  
In-depth intoduction to selected topics of Morphology. Topics include
inflection, derivation, and compounding, as well as the relation of
morphology to phonology, syntax and the lexicon.
Offered Fall
SPA 435.  A Sociolinguistic Approach to Chicano/Latino Dialect.  (3
Units)  
Identification of characteristic linguistic difficulties of Spanish-speaking
children correlated to social-cultural background. Contrastive analyses of
the linguistic competencies and performances for these children learning
English. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 440.  Spanish Syntax.  (3 Units)  
Study of the formation and structure of phrases, clauses, and sentences
in Spanish, informed by the Generative Syntax theoretical framework.
Offered Fall
SPA 450.  History of the Spanish Language.  (3 Units)  
History of the development of the Spanish language from Vulgar Latin to
the present.
Offered Fall
SPA 453.  Literature Of Spain.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPA 330. Readings and analysis of Spanish literary works
in all genres. Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall
SPA 454.  Cervantes: Don Quijote.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 330 or equivalent. Reading and analysis of the major
work of Spanish literature.
Offered Spring
SPA 456.  Literature of Spanish America.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPA 330. Readings and analysis of selected works of
Spanish American literature. Course content may cover a single country
or a literary movement or genre as represented in various Spanish
American countries. Topic varies from semester to semester. Repeatable
course.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 329
SPA 461.  Lecturas Mexicanas y Chicanas.  (3 Units)  
Reading and analysis of Mexican and Chicano literary works in all genres.
Specific genre and country will vary from semester to semester. Three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Spring
SPA 490.  Seminar in Special Topics in Literature and Linguistics.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: SPA 305, SPA 306, SPA 311, SPA 330, SPA 340, SPA 350,
SPA 351 are required. Intensive study of a single author, a literary
movement, a literary genre, or a single literary work, or an issue/topic
in linguistics. Repeatable with different topics for credit. Three hours of
seminar per week.
Offered Spring
SPA 494.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: B average in Spanish; consent of instructor and
department chair. Independent study of a literary or linguistic problem, an
author, or a literary movement. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPA 495.  Special Topics in Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Senior Standing and consent of the instructor. Intensive
study of a topic in Spanish literature, linguistics or culture. May be
repeated with a different topic for up to six units.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 498.  Directed Research in Spanish.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent, All terms
SPA 594S.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of department chair and faculty advisor. In
consultation with a faculty member, the student will investigate, in
detail, current scholarship in selected area(s) or will undertake a project
involving original research or creative study. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 595.  Special Topics in Spanish.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Two upper division courses in Spanish Literature,
two upper division courses in Spanish Linguistics, or consent of the
instructor. Intensive study of a topic of current interest to the disciplines
of Spanish Literature and Spanish Linguistics. Topic and content will vary
each term. New topics will be offered each term. Course may be repeated
with different topic.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 597S.  Directed Reading.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of department chair and faculty advisor. Extensive
reading in selected areas under the guidance of a faculty member.
Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent
SPA 599S.  Final Project.  (3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
Special Education (SPE)
SPE 403.  Reading and Language Arts Instruction for K-12 Students with
Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 and SPE 481 or LBS 310 or LBS 370 are required.
An overview of principles of reading instruction and elements of the P-12
language arts program including literature-based reading, the role of
phonics, emergent literacy and diagnosis and remediation of reading and
writing difficulties.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 405.  Collaboration with Families and School Personnel.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 is required. Designed to develop expertise in
working with stakeholders in the education of children and youth with
special needs as they transition to different levels of education and
into adulthood. Topics include communication, collaboration in team
teaching, developing IFSP/IEPs and effectively working with families,
school personnel and students who have disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 451.  Biomedical Information and Technological Interventions with
Children with Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 480 is required. Review of physical disabilities,
presentation, etiology, behavioral/psychosocial sequelae, and impact
on development. Medical care required for monitoring and ongoing
management, technological procedures, and accommodations to
facilitate full inclusion of medically fragile children in school and
community settings. Field experience included.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 454.  Curriculum and Instruction in Early Childhood Special
Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 480 is required. Current issues and best practices
research in designing curriculum for children (birth to 5 years) with
disabilities or who are at risk. Instructional intervention procedures and
educational settings appropriate to the learner's develop-mental and
functional needs.
Offered Spring
SPE 456.  Field Experience in General and Special Education.  (3 Units)  
Pre-requisites: SPE 480 and SPE 481, or LBS 301 or LBS 370 are
required. Supervised observation and participation in general and special
education settings (50 hours in each setting). General education focuses
on classroom interactions and teaching responsibilities with students in
pre-K-high school. Special Education focuses on classroom interactions
and teaching responsibilities with students of mild/moderate/severe
disabilities in infant through adult population. Fieldwork and seminar.
Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 458.  Positive Classroom Environments.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 is required. Survey and practice of researchbased techniques for managing and motivating the behavior of young
children, students at-risk, or with mild, moderate or extensive support
needs in special or general education settings. Examination of current
laws, trauma informed practices, and strategies for ensuring positive
classroom environments in special education. Field projects included.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 460.  Intro to Special Education.  (3 Units)  
Review of the field of exceptionality, including behavioral and learning
characteristics of pupils with disabilities. Examination of developmental
and program needs. Presentation of eligibility criteria, legal rights,
legislation, and exemplary school programs for diverse learners with
disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 461.  Typical and Atypical development and Assessment Issues in
Special and General Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 480 and SPE 48, or LBS 301 or LBS 370 are required.
Overview of development of children with and without disabilities
including: physical growth/development, cognitive, motor, social/
emotional development, cultural and genetic contributors to atypical
outcomes. Integrates theory and research into effective practice for
working with children who manifest a range of disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
330 Special Education (SPE)
SPE 462.  Language, Literacy and Cognition.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 is required. Basic concepts of language structure,
normal and disordered speech and language development; relevant
diagnostic-prescriptive methods for the classroom teacher; and the
use of specialized services. Additionally, theoretical perspective;
cultural difference and the relationship between language disorders and
academic learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 465.  Instructional Strategies Extensive Support Needs.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 is required. Review of issues and research
regarding effective practices for students with extensive support
needs. Practice in developing and delivering curricula appropriate to the
student's development and functional needs. Generalization of effective
teaching techniques to a variety of skill areas and environments.
Offered Spring
SPE 467.  Assessment in Special Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Prerequisite: SPE 480 and SPE 481 or LBS 310 or LBS 370
are required. Assessment and evaluation procedures using formal and
informal assessment for individuals with mild/moderate support needs,
individuals with extensive support needs, and young children (birth to 5
years). Data will be interpreted to inform strengths and needs to make
accommodations, modifications, instructional decisions, and ongoing
program improvements incorporating family concerns and priorities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 468.  Curriculum and Instruction Mild Moderate Support Needs:
STEAM.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 458, SPE 462, and SPE 480 are required. Review of
issues and research regarding teaching practices effective for students
with mild/moderate support needs. Situates instruction within a STEAM
framework, the application of effective teaching techniques in the general
education curricula and content areas appropriate to students with
learning difficulties.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 475.  Student Teaching in Early Childhood Special Education.  (13
Units)  
Prerequisite: Department Consent Required. Supervised experience with
young children (birth-5 years) with mild, moderate or extensive support
needs in early intervention/educational settings with the guidance
of a master teacher. Integrates learned theoretical models with every
day situations in planning, implementing and evaluating intervention
strategies designed to meet the California Teaching Performance
Expectations. Seminars and fieldwork. Credit/No-Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 476.  Student Teaching Extensive Support Needs.  (13 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor/Department required. Supervised
teaching with the guidance of a master teacher in an appropriate program
for students with extensive support needs. Focus on meeting the Teacher
Performance Expectations in the areas of curriculum, behavior, and
instruction. Seminars and fieldwork. Credit/No-Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 477.  Student Teaching Mild/Moderate.  (7 Units)  
Required Prerequisites: SPE 403, SPE 405, SPE 456, SPE 458, SPE 461,
SPW 462, SPE 467, SPE 468, SPE 480, and TED 410. Required Corequisites: LBS 402. Supervised experience in an approved public-school
education program under the guidance of a university supervisor and
district mentor for students with mild/moderate disabilities. Integrates
learned theoretical models with practical, hands-on experience in
planning, implementing, and evaluating intervention strategies and
outcomes.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPE 479.  Student Teaching of Individuals with Mild/Moderate
Disabilities.  (13 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor/Department required. Supervised
teaching with the guidance of a master teacher in an appropriate public
school special education program for students with mild/moderate
disabilities. Focus on the management of curriculum, behavior, and
instruction. Seminars and fieldwork. Credit/No-Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 480.  Educating Exceptional Children and Youth.  (3 Units)  
Review of the field of exceptionality, including behavioral and learning
characteristics of students with mild, moderate, and severe disabilities.
Examination of developmental and program needs. Presentation of
eligibility criteria, legal rights, legislation, and best practices for students
with exceptionalities.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPE 481.  Educating Diverse Learners with Exceptionalities.  (3 Units)  
Designed to understand the relationship between cultural, home, and
school influences and the effects these influences have on classroom
teaching and learning and the utilization of appropriate materials and
methods for students who are exceptional, culturally, ethnically, and/or
linguistically diverse.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPE 482.  Educating Students with Special Needs within Inclusive
Settings.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Completion of Phase 1. Co-requisites: TED 433/453.
Students will identify strategies and approaches to make general
education classrooms inclusive for all students. Integrate students' funds
of knowledge, social-emotional learning, developmental considerations
and technology to support students and engage families. Students will
learn to e stablish goals to improve practice through reflection and video
recording.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 488.  CalTPA for Educational Specialists.  (2 Units)  
Co-Requisites: SPE 475, SPE 476, SPE 479, SPE 555, SPE 556, or SPE 579
is required. Capstone experience designed to link theory and practice as
students reflect on their learning, connecting subject matter knowledge
and the teaching profession. Students will complete a philosophy of
education and website portfolio that substantiates their learning in the
major and complete an instructional cycle in an elementary classroom
aligned with Cycle 1 or 2 or the required summative assessment to
demonstrate competency in all Teacher Performance Expectations
(EdSp CalTPA). Candidates will focus on student learning, selecting a
learning segment, submitting teaching artifacts and analyzing, as well as
assessing the teaching event.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 331
SPE 494.  Independent Study in Special Education.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor and Special Education Department
Chair is required. Independent study in a topic related to the Special
Education Credential Program.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 495.  Special Topics in Special Education.  (3 Units)  
Selected topics in special education. Repeatable course up tp six units.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 501.  Creating Effective Inclusive Settings for Young Children w/
Exceptionalities,Families,& Professionals.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 505 and TKK 501 are required. Prepares teachers to
work with young children who are at-risk for or have a disability, their
families, and professionals. Integrates theory and research into effective
learning practices young children who require accommodations or
modifications. Information presented on disability eligibility criteria, legal
rights, and legislation and strategies for effective communication and
collaboration with families and professionals.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 504.  Reading & Language Arts Instructio for 9-12 Students with
Disabilities.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 and SPE 481 are required. Prepares teacher
candidates in the Education Specialist Mild/Moderate Program to
develop and implement a comprehensive, integrated, interactive
perspective to teaching reading/language arts in grades 9-12 classrooms.
Candidates will develop skills needed to analyze and solve curriculum,
instruction, assessment and managment problems related to reading and
language arts across the content areas.
Offered Spring
SPE 522.  Teaching Bilingual Learning in Inclusive Dual Settings.  (3
Units)  
Prepares teachers to work with exceptional students in dual language
programs. Participants will learn and apply culturally responsive
assessment practices, curricular interventions and evaluation procedures
for individuals, from infancy to adulthood, with mild/moderate and
moderate/severe disabilities. Field-based projects. Course taught in
Spanish.
Offered Spring
SPE 523.  Special Education Intern Initial Field Experience/Seminar.  (6
Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 461 and SPE 462 are required. Observation and
evaluation of intern candidates' initial teaching competencies by
university and school site supervisors. Candidates attend seminars bimonthly. Fieldwork and seminars. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 525.  Special Education Intern Advanced Field Experience/
Seminar.  (6 Units)  
Observation and evaluation of intern candidates' advanced teaching
competencies by university and school site supervisors. Candidates
attend seminars bi-monthly. Fieldwork and seminars. Credit/no credit
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 526.  Special Education Intern Continuing Field Experience/
Seminar.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 523 and SPE 525 are required. Repeatable course
designed to review the teaching competencies of special education
interns. University supervisor continues observation and evluation of
candidates' progress toward professional certification. Fieldwork and
seminars. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 527.  Resource Specialist I: Program Planning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Clear Special Education Credential. Surveys current special
education laws and practices regulating appropriate identification,
assessment, program planning, placement, parent appeal, and
coordination of services for the education of the mildly handicapped in
public and private schools.
Offered Infrequent
SPE 530.  Introduction to Assistive Technology.  (3 Units)  
Reviews the use of Assistive Technology as it relates to education,
communication, vocation, recreation, and mobility for individuals
with disabilities. Explore types of assistive technologies, functional
assessments, resources, and district responsibilities.
Offered As needed
SPE 532.  Advanced Assistive Technology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 530 and SPE 531. Teaches students to use and adapt
a variety of assistive technology devices and software and apply these
technologies in a wide range of integrated educational settings.
Offered As needed
SPE 533.  Administration of Assistive Technology Services.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 530 and SPE 531. Provides students with information
on a variety of administrative issues, including the role of the
Transdisciplinary Team, identification of funding and other resources,
specialized computer adaptations, legal and ethical issues, and effective
evaluation.
Offered As needed
SPE 537.  Capstone Course in Assistive Technology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 532 and SPE 533. Students will apply assistive
technology skills by performing functional assessments, developing
technology goals/objectives, and selecting appropriate assistive
technology services for the disabled. Additionally, students will develop
skills to facilitate the development of a system to deliver assistive
technology devices and services.
Offered As needed
SPE 543.  Spec Ed Pre Induct Plan Superv.  (1 Units)  
Development of an individualized professional induction plan for each
special education candidate upon completion of the final directed
field experience (i.e. SPE 555, SPE 566 or SPE 569 in Level II standard
credential programs or SPE 523 for Interns in Level I intern credential
programs). Credit/no credit grading.
Offered As needed
SPE 549.  Seminar in Infants and Toddlers in Early Childhood Special
Education.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 480 and SPE 481 are required. Co-requisite: SPE 550
is required. Seminar on information and experiences in working
with children from birth-3 years who have mild, moderate, or severe
disabilities. Emphasis on learning how to address the needs of children
and their families in a culturally sensitive family-centered professional
manner.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPE 550.  Field Work in Infants and Toddlers in Early Childhood Special
Education.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 and SPE 481 are required. Co-requisite: SPE 549
is required. Supervised 40-hour practicum provides experiences working
with children from birth-3 years who have mild, moderate, or severe
disabilities. Emphasis on learning how to address the needs of children
and their families in a culturally sensitive family-centered professional
manner. Credit/No Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
332 Special Education (SPE)
SPE 552.  Communicative and Collaborative Partnerships with Families
and Professionals.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 480 is required. Overview of the family systems
model for understanding families from diverse cultures with specific
focus on the effects of disability on family functions and relationships.
Use of effective communicate and collaborate with individuals with
disabilities, their families and other stakeholders to establish and work in
partnerships.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 553.  Assessment in Early Childhood Special Education and
Moderate-Severe Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 480 and SPE 481 are required. Assessment and
evaluation procedures for young children (birth to 5 years) with
developmental disabilities or delays, and students with moderate-sever
disabilities including formal and informal assessments and strategies to
determine needs and strengths while incorporating family concerns and
priorities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 555.  Directed Teaching in Early Childhood Special Education.  (13
Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of Instructor/Department Required. Supervised
experience working with young children (birth-5 years) with mild,
moderate, or extensive support needs in early intervention/educational
settings with the guidance of a master teacher. Integrates learned
theoretical models with every day situations in planning, implementing
and evaluating intervention strategies designed to meet the California
Teaching Performance Expectations. Seminar and Fieldwork required.
Credit/No-Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 564.  Instructional Planning and Curriculum Development for
Individuals with Moderate/Severe Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SPE 460 and SPE 558. Formal and informal assessment,
instructional planning, and curriculum development for children and
adults with moderate/severe disabilities. Assessment of skills leading to
functional independence in age-appropriate, developmental, domestic,
community, recreation/leisure, vocational, and social environments. Field
projects.
Offered Fall
SPE 566.  Directed Teaching of Individuals with Moderate/Severe
Disabilities.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Student must be in the last semester of credential program.
Supervised teaching in an approved public school program for individuals
with moderate to severe disabilities. Focuses on the management of
curriculum, behavior, and instruction and on professional partnerships
in school and community settings. Fieldwork and seminars are required.
Credit/No-Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 569.  Directed Teaching of Individuals with Mild/Moderate
Disabilities.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Student must be in the last semester of credential program.
Supervised teaching in an approved public school education program for
students with mild/moderate disabilities. Focuses on the management
of curriculum, behavior, and instruction and on professional partnerships
in elementary/secondary/post secondary special education programs.
Fieldwork and seminars. Credit/No Credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 570.  Individual Induction Plan Development.  (3 Units)  
Knowledge and skills to develop a professional Individualized Induction
Plan that focuses on teacher performance via inquiry and formative
assessment of their teaching practice to improve student learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 571.  Individual Induction Plan Completion.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 570 is required. Knowledge and skills to complete
a professional Individualized Induction Plan that focuses on teacher
performance via inquiry and includes a comparison of formative and
summative assessment of their teaching practice to improve student
learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 580.  Advanced Assessment, Pedagogy and Instruction for
Individuals with Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Advanced knowledge and application of current formal and informal
assessment techniques and outcome-driven educational programming
for culturally, linguistically and economically diverse children with
disabilities. Development of IEP's including research based interventions
and progress monitoring systems.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 581.  Collaborative Planning, Implementing Evaluating Educational
Programs for Students with Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Restricted to Education Specialist Clear Credential Program or MA
in Education. Knowledge and skills for effective collaboration and
consultation with students, families, and professionals including central
interaction processes for developing a range of academic, behavioral,
vocational and transitional programs on behalf of individuals with
disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 582.  Current Trends and Issues in Special Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GED 500 is required. Advanced study of pertinent topics
related to federal, state, and local agencies and their role in special
education; organization of Special Education programs and service
delivery; the preparation of teachers of exceptional children and research
and demonstration projects in the education of exceptional children.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 583.  Education Law and Policy: Serving Students with
Disabilities.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of legislation, litigation, and administrative rulings related to
special education. Emphasizes the development of legally sound policies
and procedures to ensure an appropriate education for students with
disabilities.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 584.  Research I: Evidenced Based Inquiry and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 582 is required. Advance study of research in
educational contexts through the application of evidenced-based inquiry
practices. Research proposal design, methodology, and data collection.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 585.  Research II: Evidenced Based Inquiry and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SPE 584 is required. Advanced study of research in
educational contexts through the application of evidenced-based inquiry
practices and project development/implementation. Research project
data analysis, interpretation and reporting of findings, and implecations
for further research.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 333
SPE 591.  Current Issues in Special Education.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of all course work leading to the M.A. in Special
Education. Designed to help the graduate student in special education
integrate all previous course work in the field. Legal and empirical
evidence bearing on specific current issues will be reviewed and used as
the basis of class discussion. CR/NC grading. Two hours of seminar per
week.
Offered As needed
SPE 594.  Independent Study in Special Education.  (1-3 Units)  
Independent study taken under the supervision of a faculty member.
Repeatable for credit.
Offered As needed
SPE 595.  Graduate Selected Topics in Special Education.  (1-4 Units)  
Advanced course of special interests to graduate students in Special
Education. Topic and content will vary as announced. Repeatable course.
One to three hours of seminar each week.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
SPE 599.  Graduate Capstone in Special Education.  (1-3 Units)  
Research and writing of thesis project for the master's degree. Topic
of research must be approved by graduate advisor. Open only to thesis
option graduate students. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
SPE 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Sports, Ent., Hospitality (SEH)
SEH 310.  Sports Enter & Hospitality MGT.  (3 Units)  
Overview of the sports, entertainment, and hospitality fields. Examines
the current issues, trends, and problems in these fields. Includes an
investigation into career opportunities and growth potential for the
sports, entertainment, and hospitality industries.
Offered Fall, Spring
SEH 330.  Managing Sports Facilities.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEH 310. Provides students with an introduction to the
planning and management of sports facilities. Focuses on elements of
planning, design, and management, while examining functions related to
maintenance, security, operations and evaluation.
Offered Fall, Spring
SEH 348.  Principles of Travel & Tourism.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEH 310. Study of historical and modern principles of travel
and tourism. Exploration of societal trends, global tourist behavior, and
environmental factors influencing the destination mix. Investigation of
tourism planning, promotion.
Offered Fall, Spring
SEH 400.  Tickets Operations in the Entertainment Industry.  (3 Units)  
Ticket sales are a complex activity that goes well beyond the act
of selling. Course focuses on ticket sales strategies and promotion
processes highlighting the fundamental concepts, principles, and
applications associated in this strategic area of entertainment and sports
management.
Offered Infrequent
SEH 401.  Leadership in the Entertainment Industry.  (3 Units)  
The entertainment industry is one of the largest ad most important
industries in the world. Technologies transform the way entertainment
is created and distributed. Course prepares students to accelerate their
careers in the creative industries through the exploration of leadership
skills.
Offered Infrequent
SEH 402.  Strategic Sports Marketing.  (3 Units)  
The entertainment industry is one of the largest and most important
industries in the world. Technologies transform the way entertainment
is created and distributed. Course prepares students to accelerate their
careers in the creative industries through the exploration of strategic
sports marketing skills.
Offered Infrequent
SEH 403.  Sport Venue and Event Management.  (3 Units)  
Sport venue management represents one of the fastest areas of growth
in the sport industry. With new arenas, stadiums, health clubs, convention
centers, and other facilities popping up all over the nation, numerous job
opportunities are available in this discipline.
Offered Infrequent
SEH 448.  Hotel and Resort Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEH 310. Investigation of management in the hospitality
industry with emphasis on food service, lodging, tourism, and
contemporary issues. Examines customer service, international markets,
human resources, marketing, and fiscal implications. Field trips required.
Offered Fall, Spring
SEH 495.  Spec Topic: Hospitality Mgt..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEH 310. Study of a current topic in the entertainment
industry.
Offered Infrequent
SEH 496.  Internship in Sports, Entertainment & Hospitality.  (1-3 Units)  
Under the direction of a faculty of the discipline, students work in a
business organization related to sports, entertainment or hospitality field
applying the skills and knowledge learned in th classroom.
Offered As needed
Systems Engineering (SEE)
SEE 500.  The Practice of Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
The course provides an overview Systems Engineering professional
competencies. Content and case studies present Systems Engineering
as a multi-faceted discipline that draws upon human, organizational and
technical resources to define, develop and deploy systems.
SEE 510.  Introduction to Systems Engineering I.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: SEE 501 required.Systems engineering processes, principles
and tools used during a project¿s life cycle. Risk assessment that
addresses technical, schedule, cost, and performance risks. Role of
engineering sub-disciplines in the fulfillment of mission requirements.
Risk and reliability in complex systems. A-B/NC grading.
Offered Fall
SEE 515.  Introduction to System Engineering II.  (3 Units)  
Course covers processes, principles and tools utilized throughout a
system's life cycle. Topics include the role of requirements engineering,
risk management, supportability and logistics in the development of
complex systems.
334 Teacher Education (TED)
SEE 520.  Analytics in Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: SEE 500, MAT 131 or MAT 321 or an introductory course
in statistics and probability; CSC 121 or an introductory programming
course Statistical methods used in data analytics with a focus on
decision making in engineering applications.
Offered Fall
SEE 530.  Quantitative Methods in Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 131 or MAT 132 or an introductory course in probability
and statistics and SEE 510. Probability and statistics for engineering
project cost estimates, system risk assessments, life cycle models and
management plans.
Offered Spring
SEE 540.  Economic Factors in Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: SEE 510 required. Principles of engineering economics;
impact of economic factors for systems engineers, tools for
understanding and analyzing these factors, fundamental quantitative
analysis of cash flow, system life-cost estimating; parametric cost
models.
Offered Fall
SEE 550.  Modeling and Simulation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEE 530 required. Application of computer simulation to
engineering (sub)systems; systems structure, system analysis, model
construction, data collection, and computer simulations tools.
Offered Summer
SEE 560.  Model Based Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEE 530, SEE 540, SEE 550. Co-requisite: SEE 550 required.
Application of model curation, model repositories and model integration
in MBSE; distinction between engineering models and model-based
systems engineering is emphasized.
Offered Summer
SEE 570.  Complex Systems Architecture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEE 515 required. Holistic approach to the process of
architecting systems in various engineering disciplines. Architectural as
they relate to adaptive, complex and resilient systems.
Offered Spring
SEE 580.  System-of-Systems Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEE 550, SEE 560, SEE 570 required. Critical issues
associated with the integration of systems and/or systems-of-systems.
Offered Fall
SEE 590.  Master's Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: SEE 504, SEE 505 (may be taken concurrently) and consent
of graduate advisor. Co-requisite: SEE 585 required. Individual research
on a systems engineering topic under the direction of graduate faculty.
Repeatable course.
Offered Spring
SEE 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Signature of graduate program coordinator required.
Graduate students, who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion for their degree, may attain
continuous enrollment by enrolling in this course.
Teacher Education (TED)
TED 400.  Introduction to Education.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Education. Includes 30 hours of early
field experience in K-12 classrooms. Topics include California Teacher
Performance Expectations, state content standards, lesson planning /
teaching / reflection, and professional, legal and ethical responsibilities of
teachers. Computer applications used to complete course tasks.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 402.  Educational Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Education. Psychology of learning
and motivation related to instruction; emphasis on application of learning
principles to classroom learning situations, including multicultural
settings. Survey of applicable research from educational psychology and
psychology. Mainstreaming students with special needs.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 403.  Elementary Reading/Language Arts I: K-3.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Multiple Subject Program. A balanced
approach to teaching reading/language arts grades K through 3. Focus
on the foundational skills and strategies needed in the developmental
phase of learning to read. Addresses research-based knowledge and
instructional practices aligned with the California Reading/Language Arts
Framework.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
TED 404.  Elem.Reading/Language Arts II:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 403. A balanced, integrative and interactive perspective
to teaching reading/language arts grades 4 through 8. Focus on skills
and strategies needed in reading and learning for life. Addresses
research-based knowledge and instructional practices aligned with the
California Reading/Language Arts Framework.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
TED 405.  Mainstreaming Children With Special Needs.  (3 Units)  
A course to facilitate the integration of handicapped children into the
regular classroom. Covers legal responsibilities, diagnostic/prescriptive
teaching, problem solving and visits to special education facilities.
Offered As needed
TED 406.  Teaching Secondary Reading.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Single Subject Program. Procedures, materials
for teaching content related reading/writing. Includes use of multicultural
literature, instructional technology, interpretation of research in reading
comprehension; reading/writing for language diverse populations,
classroom based diagnostic tools, cross curricular reading/writing
strategies. Microteaching or field experience.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 407.  Languages in Praxis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: LBS 302 is required. Co-requisites: LBS 400 or LBS 405
required. Restricted to LBS majors. Focus on linguistic, social, and
cultural factors in schooling language minority students; how factors
considered for effective learning practices. Areas of concentration
include primary language development, second language acquisition,
evaluation, current research.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 408.  Elementary Art and Music Methods.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Multiple Subject Program.Multicultural
methods, materials and strategies for elementary art and music including
instructional planning, lesson design and use of appropriate media
materials and resources that are culturally and linguistically diverse.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 335
TED 410.  Elementary Mathematics Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Multiple Subject Program. Methods and
materials for elementary math education. Includes instructional planning,
unit development, selection and preparation of curriculum materials,
assessment procedures, problem-solving strategies and sheltered
mathematics instruction.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
TED 411.  Classroom Management Methods.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Education. Focus on culturally and
linguistically sensitive discipline strategies, management and effective
teaching of techniques identified by recent research. A minimum of 15
hours field application required.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 412.  Teaching History-Social Studies and Content Area Literacy in
the Elementary Classroom.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase 2 Multiple Subject Program; TED 403
is required. An inquiry-based approach to teaching elementary social
studies integrated with reading/language arts, aligned with Common Core
standards and California Subject Matter Frameworks. Candidates learn
strategies to develop social studies content, concepts, and analysis skills,
and expository and narrative literacy skills.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
TED 413.  Elementary Physical Education, Visual and Performing Arts
Methods.  (3 Units)  
Methods, materials and strategies for visual and performing arts, physical
education, and health, in multiple subject classroom settings; including
instructional planning, lesson design and use of appropriate media
materials and resources that are culturally and linguistically diverse.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
TED 414.  Cultural Ecology in the Classroom.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: TED 400, TED 402 and TED 407 are recommended.
Integrates knowledge of cultural ecologies from the home, school and
community. The course of study includes creating learning environments
that reflect diversity, positive interactions between students and teacher,
culturally responsive classroom management, multiple perspectives as
well as a foundational approach to classroom rules, routines, procedures
and norms.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 415.  Multicultural Ed in Urban Cont.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Education. Analysis and application
of the concepts of cultural diversity with emphasis on current issues
in education in an urban context. Prepares teachers for multicultural
environments and utilization of appropriate materials and methods for
culturally, ethnically, and language diverse students.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 416.  Elementary Science Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase 2 of Multiple Subject Credential
Program. Methods and materials for project-based elementary
science education. Emphasizes inquiry-based instruction and includes
instructional planning, multi-day lesson development, selection and
preparation of curriculum materials, assessment procedures, problemsolving strategies, sheltered science and language instruction and health.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 417.  Seminar In Adult Education.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: Concurrent enrollment in TED 423 is required; TED 418,
TED 419 and TED 421. Addresses beginning adult education intern needs
for working in ethnically, culturally and language diverse adult school
settings. It emphasizes problem solving and discussion of competency
checklists used in intern fieldwork. One hour of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
TED 418.  Methods and Materials of Adult Education, Part I.  (2 Units)  
Course covers instructional techniques; evaluation of student
achievement and the learning process in adult education.
Offered As needed
TED 419.  Methods and Materials of Adult Education, Part II.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 418. Covers instructional techniques, instructional
technology, strategies to address the needs of diverse learners and
resources in the Adult Education community. Emphasis will be placed on
three specific groups: ESL students, older adults and exceptional adults.
Offered As needed
TED 420.  Computer Literacy for Teachers.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Teacher Education. Focuses on computer
basics, terminology, operation and care of computer-related hardware,
trouble-shooting techniques, legal and ethical issues, copyright issues,
and interacting with others using email and threaded discussion. Credit/
no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 421.  Principles Of Adult Education.  (2 Units)  
Course is designed to meet the requirements for the Designated Subject
Credential. Topics include scope and function of adult education,
knowledge of cultural differences in students and communities,
curriculum, media and community relationships.
Offered As needed
TED 423.  Super Fld Exper: Adult Ed.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 421 and TED 422 are recommended. Course is
designed to give student practical experiences in teaching adults.
Includes participation in classroom, school and communities, and
individualized assignments to fulfill the particular needs of each
credential applicant. Evaluation of field experience in scheduled
seminars. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered As needed
TED 424.  Counseling and Guidance for Teachers of Adult Education.  (2
Units)  
Topics will cover counseling techniques to meet special needs of adult
students and interpersonal relations/communication skills.
Offered As needed
TED 425.  Workshop In Teaching Methods.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of various approaches, methods, and materials related to a
selected area of the curriculum. Development of applications at
elementary and/or secondary level. Two to six hours of activity per week.
Offered As needed, All terms
TED 426.  Foundations of Education.  (6 Units)  
Co-requisite: TED 427 and TED 428 are required. Introduction to the
TTT online teacher education program and the teaching profession,
with a focus on foundations of education. Topics include the history of
education, classroom management, language development for English
learners and standard English learners, and students with special needs.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
336 Teacher Education (TED)
TED 427.  Content Pedagogy I.  (6 Units)  
Co-requisites: TED 426 and TED 428 are required. Focuses on lesson
planning, standards and objectives, assessment, literacy development,
problem-based learning in math and science, online resources, and
application of principles of effective instruction in real-world contexts.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
TED 428.  Early Field Observation and Participation.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisites: TED 426 and TED 427 are required. Consists of a minimum
of 40 hours of observation and participation. Candidates will draw on
content and strategies from TED 426 and TED 427 in planing lessons for
their early field experience. CR/NC grading.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring
TED 429.  Supporting All Students.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 426, TED 427 and TED 428 are required. Co-requisites:
TED 430 and TED 431 are required. Focuses on developing strategies
for supporting every learner, including those with disabilities and special
needs. Explores the student Study Team. Addresses school health issues.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 430.  Content Pedagogy 2.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 426, TED 427 and TED 428 are required. Co-requisites:
TED 429 and TED 431 are required. Focuses on universal access,
inductive and deductive teaching strategies, and models of teaching.
Compares Direct Instruction with Problem-Based Learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 431.  Lab School Fieldwork Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 426, TED 427, and TED 428 are required. Co-requisites:
TED 429 and TED 430 are required. Consists of a minimum of 40 hours of
observation and participation, plus the completion of specific tasks that
develop the candidates' capacity to plan, instruct, assess and reflect in
their content area. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 432.  Interdisciplinary Teaching.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 429, TED 430, and TED 431 are required. Co-requisites:
TED 438 and TED 465 are required. Focuses on culture and ways in
which teachers broaden their understanding of what students bring to
their educational experience so as to build upon it for student success.
Expands on concept of Project-Based Learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 433.  Teaching Practices Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase Two. Student teaching candidates
observe and participate in a Multiple Subject classroom with an
experienced teacher, accompanied by reflective seminar. Credit/no credit
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 434.  Student Teach: Elem I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 400 and TED 411. Student teaching with a master
teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural public elementary school.
Done in conjunction with methods coursework. Focuses on Teacher
Performance Expectations 1 though 13. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 435.  Elementary Student Teaching.  (12 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 433. Consists of one semester of supervised classroom
practice with a master teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural
public elementary school. Done in conjunction with methods coursework.
Focuses on Teacher Performance Expectations 1 through 14. Credit/no
credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 436.  Seminar: Elementary Student Teachers.  (1 Units)  
Problem solving and use of competency checklists in student teaching
at the elementary level. Credit/no credit grading. One hour of seminar per
week.
Offered As needed
TED 437.  Elem Stu Teaching (integrated).  (9 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 433. Consists of one semester of supervised classroom
practice with a master teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural
public elementary school. Done in conjunction with methods coursework.
Focuses on Teacher Performance Expectations 1 through 13. Credit/no
credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 438.  Teaching Event and Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites TED 429, TED 430, and TED 431 are required. Corequisites:
TED 432 and TED 465 are required. Candidates complete the Teaching
Event, the required summative, assessment, by demonstrating
competency in all Teacher Performance Expectations. Candidates focus
on student learning, select a learning segment, submit teaching artifacts
and analysis, and assess the teaching event. CR/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 439.  Heritage Language Learner Pedagogies with Plurilingual TK-12
Students.  (3 Units)  
This course explores native and heritage language learning pedagogies
in dual language classrooms with attention to TK-12 Latinx student
experiences. Students engage in transformative curricular design with an
emphasis on translanguaging. Course taught in Spanish.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 440.  Critical Biliteracy with Plurilingual Communities.  (3 Units)  
This course explores asset based critical biliteracy pedagogies in
multilingual TK-12 school communities. Students engage in collective
curricular design process with an emphasis on developing critical
biliteracy across content areas with students and families. Course taught
in Spanish.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 445.  Fieldwork: Elementary Interns.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Fieldwork. Consists of two semesters of
supervised classroom practice. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 446.  Introduction to Internship: Multiple Subject University
Intern.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Fieldwork. Introduction to Critical Friends
Inquiry Groups for elementary University Interns. Focus on reflective
teacher inquiry, cognitive coaching, peer review and self-assessment. AB/no credit grading.
Offered Infrequent, All terms
TED 447.  Intern Performance Assessment: Multiple Subject.  (4 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 404. Assessment Seminar. Critical reflection on intern
performance and student achievement correlated with the 13 Teacher
Performance Expectations.
Offered As needed
TED 448.  Teaching Event: Multiple Subject.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase Two. Candidates complete the
Teaching Event, the required summative assessment, by demonstrating
competency in all Teacher Performance Expectations. Candidates focus
on student learning, select a learning segment, submit teaching artifacts
and analysis, and assess the teaching event. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 337
TED 453.  Teaching Practices Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase Two. Student teaching candidates
observe and participate in a single subject classroom with an
experienced teacher accompanied by reflective seminar. Credit/no credit
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 454.  Student Teaching Secondary I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 400 and TED 411. Student teaching with a master
teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural public secondary school.
Done in conjunction with methods coursework. Focuses on Teacher
Performance Expectations 1 through 13. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered As needed
TED 455.  Student Teaching: Secondary.  (12 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 453. Consists of one semester of supervised classroom
practice with a master teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural
public secondary school. Done in conjunction with methods coursework.
Focuses on Teacher Performance Expectations 1 through 13. Credit/no
credit grading.
Offered As needed
TED 456.  Seminar: Secondary Student Teachers.  (1 Units)  
Problem solving and discussion of competency check lists used in
student teaching in multilingual, multiethnic, and multicultural secondary
settings. CR/NC grading.
Offered As needed
TED 457.  Student Teaching:Secondary II.  (9 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 454. Consists of one semester of supervised classroom
practice with a master teacher at an urban multilingual/multicultural
public elementary school. Done in conjunction with methods coursework.
Focuses on Teacher Performance Expectations 1 through 13. Credit/no
credit grading.
Offered As needed
TED 460.  Creating a Supportive Healthy Environment for Secondary
Student Learning.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Single Subject Program. Single Subject
credential candidates learn how to create a supportive healthy
environment for secondary student learning.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 465.  Fieldwork: Secondary Interns.  (6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Fieldwork. Consists of two semesters of
supervised classroom practice. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 466.  Introduction to Internship: Single Subject University Intern.  (1
Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Fieldwork. Introduction to Critical Friends
Inquiry Groups for secondary University Interns. Focus on reflective
teacher inquiry, cognitive coaching, peer review and self-assessment.
Offered Infrequent
TED 467.  Secondary Teaching Methods I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Single Subject Program. Principles of effective
instruction, critical thinking/questioning skills, lesson design, cooperative
learning, sheltered instruction, guided discovery; curriculum materials for
culturally, ethnically, and language diverse content classrooms.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 468.  Secondary Teaching Methods II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Single Subject Program. Taken in single
subject credential area. Explores methods and materials for planning
instructional units and lessons. Presents alternative strategies of
instruction and evaluation to assure high-level learning with ethnically,
culturally, and language diverse students.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 469.  Interdisciplinary Teaching Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Acceptance to intern status in single subject program
or advancement to fieldwork status; TED 467 and TED 468; TED 406
recommended. Explores interdisciplinary teaching methods for
the multicultural, multilingual classroom including psychological,
philosophical perspectives. Presents strategies, practices, and resources
for developing an integrated curriculum.
Offered As needed
TED 470.  Critical Perspectives in Urban Education.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 444. Capstone experience. Focuses on the professional
obligations of teachers in society and the role of families and the
community in the education of children. Addresses the historical,
philosophical, cultural, and sociological foundations of American
education from an equity perspective.
Offered As needed
TED 471.  Secondary Methods III: Curriculum and Assessment.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 467; concurrent enrollment in TED 468 recommended.
Focus on interdisciplinary curriculum and assessment. Includes
diagnostic, formative, and summative assessment. Focuses on
evaluation, grading procedures, and use and interpretation of
standardized exams as tools for instruction and monitoring of
achievement.
Offered As needed
TED 472.  Intern Performance Assessment: Single Subject.  (4 Units)  
Assessment Seminar. Critical reflection on intern performance and
student achievement correlated with the 13 Teacher Performance
Expectations.
Offered As needed
TED 476.  Summative Assessment Seminar: Phase Two Multiple Subject
Student Teachers.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: TED 475. Summative Assessment Seminar to complete
reflective essay and performance task. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered As needed
TED 481.  Summative Assessment Seminar: Phase Two Single Subject
Student Teachers.  (2 Units)  
Summative Assessment Seminar to complete reflective essay and
performance task. Credit/no credit grading
Offered As needed
TED 488.  Teaching Event: Single Subject.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: Admission to Phase Two. Candidates complete the
Teaching Event, the required summative assessment, by demonstrating
competency in all Teacher Performance Expectations. Candidates focus
on student learning, select a learning segment, submit teaching artifacts
and analysis, and assess the teaching event. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Infrequent
TED 490.  Seminar: Issues in Education.  (1-3 Units)  
Identification of significant and persistent issues in education, to
evaluate policy statements and published opinions with an awareness of
elements involved. Repeatable course. One to three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered As needed
338 Technology Based Education (TBE)
TED 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Independent study taken under the
supervision of a faculty member. Repeatable course.
Offered As needed
TED 495.  Special Topics in Teacher Education.  (1-6 Units)  
Selected topics in teacher education. Repeatable course up to six units.
Offered As needed
TED 501.  Lesson Study: Engaging all Students in Learning.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 is required. Introduction to the foundations of
lesson study and its analysis for induction candidates. Collaboration in
designing, observing and discussing lessons to provide universal access
and engage all students in learning. Focus on English Learners, GATE
students and students with special needs. Course is restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
TED 502.  Advanced Lesson Study II: Using Data to Improve
Achievement.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: GED 500 is required. Advanced lesson study and its
analysis for induction candidates. Collaboration in collecting, analyzing
and using data to improve student learning. Focus on students who may
be at risk. Course is restricted to majors.
Offered Fall
TED 503.  Teacher Action Research Project.  (3 Units)  
Teacher action research methods course for induction teachers
working in urban diverse classrooms. Candidates conduct inquiries
on professional practices using scientific methods to improve student
achievement.
Offered Spring
TED 504.  Colloquium.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: GED 500 is required. Induction candidates do an in-depth
intervention to increase student achievement. Multimedia presentation
disseminating findings. Focus on students who may be at risk. Course is
restricted to majors.
Offered Spring
TED 505.  Educational Psychology.  (3 Units)  
Explores theory, research, and practice related to learning, motivation,
and effective and cognitive development. Emphasis on the application
of learning principles to classroom learning situations and individual
differences.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 506.  Multicultural and Social Foundations of Education.  (3 Units)  
An investigation and analysis of cultural influences and constructs such
as race, gender and class to provide insight into the relationship among
the individual, society and school in US education.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 507.  Language Learning: Theory and Practice.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on theory, research, and teaching practices that concern
language in education. using sociocultural theory as a lens, evaluate
research and teaching practices that explore how people acquire
language in multilingual and multimodal contexts within community,
home and school settings.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 551.  Supportive Learning Environments.  (3 Units)  
Co-requisite: SPE 570. Candidates develop integrated systems for
academic and social skills instruction for all students. Course includes
study of behavior, positive behavioral interventions and supports, social
skills instruction, crisis management, at the school-wide, classroom and
individual student level.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 553.  Curriculum Planning, Implementation and Assessment.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 551 and SPE 570 are required. Co-requisite: SPE 571
is required. In-depth study of the processes of curriculum planning,
implementation and assessment, and application of these processes to
student-generated lessons and units of instruction. Addresses California
Standards for the Teaching Profession, data-driven decision making,
differentiated instruction, problem-based learning, and instructional
leadership.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 560.  MA in Education: Curriculum and Instruction Capstone.  (1
Units)  
Prerequisites: CUR 510 and CUR 519 are required. Preparation for
the M.A. in Education Comprehensive Exam. Consists of small group,
candidate presentations of specific TED, GED, and CUR course material.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 594.  Independent Study.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Independent research under the
supervision of a faculty member.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
TED 599.  Thesis.  (1-6 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Advisor. The student will execute an individually
planned research effort or a creative project. Students work under
individual supervision with assigned faculty. May be repeated up to six
units.
Offered Fall, Spring
TED 600.  Grad Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not their
thesis, project, or comprehensive examinations, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion of their degree, may maintain
continuous attendance by enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate
program coordinator required.
Offered Fall, Spring
Technology Based Education (TBE)
TBE 518.  Current Topics in Educ. Tech..  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 520. Provides information about topics of current
interest in educational technology. Course content and requirements vary
by semester.
Offered Fall
TBE 520.  Intro Computers In Edu.  (3 Units)  
Presents the uses of computers in educational settings, including:
computer assisted instruction, criteria for software and hardware
selection, computer-assisted testing, and an introduction to
programming. Laboratory in educational computing provides experience
in the following areas: Word processing, LOGO and BASIC programming,
computerized grade books, computer-assisted testing and computer
graphics.
Offered Infrequent
TBE 530.  Graph/Word Proc/Dsk Tp Pub.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 520 or consent of instructor. Prepares students to use
both paint and object-oriented graphics, word processing and desktop
publishing software in preparing educational materials. Prepares the
teachers who are students of this course to teach these skills to their
pupils in the public schools.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 339
TBE 540.  Programming Applic Edu.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 520. Fundamentals of computer programming logic
using LOGO and web page development. Emphasis is on instructional
design and the creation of classroom-related materials.
Offered Fall
TBE 550.  Computer-Managed Instruction.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 520. This class presents skills for managing computerbased instruction, including IBM, Macintosh and Apple II series
hardware and software troubleshooting, computer lab supervision,
telecommunications, networking, and in-service training design and
presentation.
Offered Fall, Spring
TBE 560.  Prep Comp Asst Instr.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 540 or consent of instructor. Prepares students to plan
and write drill and practice lessons, tutorials, simulations, tests, and
supporting materials for computer assisted instruction.
Offered Fall
TBE 570.  CAI Final Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 560 or consent of instructor. This capstone activity
requires the student to develop, field-test and evaluate the effectiveness
of a computer assisted instructional product.
Offered Spring
TBE 580.  ePortfolio Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: TBE 560 is required. TBE 570 is recommended. Create an
ePortfolio containing evidence using projects, papers, and/or activities
demonstrating mastery of ISTE Technology Facilitation standards.
The evidence for each standard must be accompanied by a written
justification showing how the evidence meets the standard.
Offered Infrequent
Theatre Arts (THE)
THE 100.  Television Film & Theatre.  (3 Units)  
Appreciation of the performing arts of television, film, and the live theatre
through the viewing of films and videotapes, as well as attendance at
plays and musicals.
Offered Fall, Spring
THE 120.  Fundamentals of Speech.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to the basic principles of speech communication. Classes
cover the use of organization and evidence in speech preparation, and
emphasize research and performance techniques. Students develop
speeches for a variety of topics and situations. A-C-/NC grading.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
THE 160.  Acting For Non-Majors.  (3 Units)  
Introductory course for non-majors who wish to develop awareness
and control of the voice and body while building self-confidence, and
improving concentration and imagination.
Offered Fall, All terms
THE 251.  Script Analysis.  (3 Units)  
A study of classical and contemporary dramas in terms of plot, character,
theme, and language. Students analyze one script per week.
Offered Fall
THE 264.  Acting I.  (3 Units)  
An integrative approach to the actor's emotional, intellectual, physical,
and vocal tools. Exercises in characterization, voice, and movement will
be emphasized.
Offered Fall
THE 269.  Voice and Movement.  (3 Units)  
Foundational course for anyone interested in performing in Theatre, Film,
or Television, or improving their speaking voice and strengthening their
body. Voice and Movement allows students to engage their voices and
body to effectively speak and communicate.
Offered All terms, Spring
THE 313.  Voices of Contemporary Women Playwrights.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Upper division integrative coursework must be taken
after 60 semester units and the lower division components of General
Education (or their equivalent) have been completed. By analyzing their
dynamic writings, this course investigates the contributions of women to
the modern dialogue on gender issues. Students will demonstrate how
female playwrights have continually crossed boundaries to break with
traditions and sculpt new cultural conventions.
Offered Fall, Spring
THE 315.  Key Concepts: The American Musical.  (3 Units)  
Participation in any aspect of campus theatre or television production
including (but not limited to) acting, stage management, scenery, lighting,
costume, construction, audio, properties, box office, promotion, and
running crews. This participation includes attendance at Theatre Arts
productions for the semester enrolled.
Offered Infrequent
THE 317.  Theatre of Revolt.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper division integrative coursework must be taken
after 60 semester units and the lower division components of General
Education (or their equivalent) have been completed. Investigates the
revolutionary impulse that has promoted modern drama in African,
European, American and Asian/Pacific societies. Students learn how
modern playwrights have continually crossed boundaries to break with
traditions and sculpt new conventions.
Offered Fall
THE 319.  The Power of Masks.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Upper-division integrative coursework must be taken
after 60 semester units and the lower division components of General
Education (or their equivalent) have been completed. Covers the
significance and function of ritual masks in African, European, American
and Asian/Pacific societies; mask usage in literature, and the visual and
performing arts; and the integration of psychological masking in human
behavior.
Offered Fall
THE 320.  Speech Skills and Techniques.  (3 Units)  
Effective and persuasive oral communication in a variety of situations:
formal address, group discussion interviews, chairing of meetings, and
others. Of particular value for Liberal Studies majors, managers and
business persons.
Offered Spring
THE 322.  Oral Interpretation of Literature.  (3 Units)  
Principles and practice in the effective delivery of readings in drama,
poetry, and prose.
Offered Spring
THE 323.  Interpersonal Communication.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: THE 120. Introductory study of interpersonal
communication in face-to-face interaction; consideration of interpersonal
roles, needs, barriers, perceptions, and adaptation.
Offered Infrequent
340 Theatre Arts (THE)
THE 326.  Persuasion.  (3 Units)  
Discussion of techniques in argumentation and debate; logic,
reasoning, and fallacies of reasoning; gathering and testing of evidence,
construction of bases, and skills of refutation; practical application
through debates about current issues.
Offered Infrequent
THE 329.  Forensics Workshop.  (3 Units)  
Introduces the basic principles used in debate, persuasive speaking, oral
interpretation, reader's theatre, and other competition events. Students
discuss the use of organization and evidence in speech preparation,
and research and performance techniques. Students participate in local
intercollegiate competition events.
Offered Spring
THE 337.  Creative Dramatics.  (3 Units)  
Creating, planning and assessing dramatic exercises, including theatre
games, pantomime, and improvisation. Of particular value to prospective
teachers of young children.
Offered Spring, All terms
THE 339.  Multicultural Children's Theatre.  (3 Units)  
Analysis of educational theatre, multicultural plays, and folktales.
Students discuss educational theatre production and how to create
culturally-enriching programs at K-12 schools.
Offered Fall
THE 340.  Costuming.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the principles, elements and practicalities of costume
design and their relation to design in the Theatre. Lectures on the
elements and procedures in costume deign, combined with practical
exercises from individual skill-building projects.
Offered Spring odd
THE 341.  Makeup and Hair.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the principles, elements and practicalities of Makeup
and Hair for theatre production. Students learn how to communicate
design choices both visually and verbally through research, drawing and
three dimensional makeup.
Offered Spring
THE 342.  Fundamentals of Theatre Design.  (3 Units)  
A course in Theatre Arts Utilizing research, discussion and workshop
demonstrations in order to integrate the six major areas of theatre
design: scenery, costume, lighting, makeup, properties and audio.
Offered Fall
THE 343.  Design/Tech II: The Design Experience.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 243. Students are assigned design projects both on
and off campus, where they can apply their skills. Students will work
under the supervision of lead and/or master designers.
Offered Spring
THE 344.  Stagecraft.  (3 Units)  
Study of basic skills and procedures used to realize a design idea into a
finished stage production. Explores practical applications of artistic and
structural design, project management, term development, construction
techniques, and resource coordination.
Offered All terms, Spring
THE 345.  Scene Design.  (3 Units)  
The basic techniques of the principles and practices of scenic design for
stage. Included are design functions, construction, painting, modeling,
history and theories of design.
Offered All terms, Spring
THE 346.  Theatre Workshop.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and department chair. Investigation
of a single topic, chosen in consultation with a faculty member,
culminating in a paper, presentation, or project. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
THE 347.  Stage Lighting and Sound.  (3 Units)  
A course in the design of theatrical lighting and sound, and in the
practical application of those designs. Learning in this course will be
done via lectures as well as hands-on experience and selected reading.
Offered Fall
THE 353.  Playwriting.  (3 Units)  
Theory and practice in writing for the stage. Students explore plotting,
characterization, and dialogue; scenes and short plays are submitted for
discussion and evaluation.
Offered Fall, All terms
THE 355.  World Theatre and Drama I.  (3 Units)  
History and literature of the theatre from its origins through the 16th
century. Emphasis on production styles, cultural background and literary
trends.
Offered Fall, Spring, All terms
THE 357.  World Theatre & Drama II.  (3 Units)  
History and literature of the theatre from the 16th century to the present
with emphasis on production styles, cultural background and literary
trends.
Offered Spring
THE 364.  Acting II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 264 or consent of instructor. The actor's approach
to a role, including text and character analysis. Performance of scenes
from plays. Vocal work on dialects with concentration on melody, rhythm,
and sound substitutions. Beginning movement work in body alignment,
centering and balance.
Offered Spring
THE 367.  Acting For The Camera.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 160 or concent of instructor. Techniques of directing
and performing before the camera. Scenes and presentations will be
videotaped both in the studio and on location.
Offered Infrequent
THE 374.  Stage Directing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 264 is recommended. Theories and techniques of
directing for professional or educational play production. Students
develop the ability to research, analyze and conceptualize in order to plan
the rehearsal and performance of a play script. Attendance at the Theatre
Arts two mainstage productions is required.
Offered Fall odd
THE 376.  Stage Management.  (3 Units)  
Techniques of stage management, with practical applications. Covers
stage manager responsibilities, pre-show preparations, scheduling,
communication, and techniques for auditioning, rehearsing and running a
production of live theatre. Attendance at department shows required.
Offered Fall
THE 440.  Rehearsal and Performance.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Audition or Approval of the Instructor Supervised activity
as a performer or theatre technician in a Theatre Program approved,
University sponsored production. Repeatable for credit.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 341
THE 453.  Contemporary Drama.  (3 Units)  
A study of plays by American and international writers from the
last twenty-five years. Emphasis on the works of playwrights from
traditionally underrepresented groups.
Offered Infrequent
THE 464.  Acting III.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 264 and THE 364 or consent of instructor. Study
and performance of period scenes involving methods of approaching
various types of plays and specific problems they present the actor.
Emphasis on the synthesis of analysis, action, characterization, subtext,
vocal problems posed by verse and exploration of advanced movement
techniques.
Offered Fall
THE 490.  Seminar In Theatre Arts.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor. Discussion and exploration of
advanced problems in Theatre Arts. Intensive study of one or more
subjects relating to the theatre and drama. Three hours of seminar per
week.
Offered Spring
THE 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
THE 495.  Special Topics In Theatre.  (1-3 Units)  
Study of a single topic in drama and theatre, to be determined by the
instructor. Topic varies each offering. Repeatable course. One to three
hours of lecture per week.
Offered Infrequent
THE 496.  Off Campus Internship.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisites: THE 326 and THE 328. Directed work experience in the
industries of local professional theatre, cable television, broadcast
stations and networks, production houses, or motion picture studios
under the supervision of a professionally-qualified mentor. CR/NC grading
only. Repeatable course. Ten hours of work experience per week.
Offered Infrequent
THE 499.  Senior Project.  (2 Units)  
A capstone course culminating in the production of a final, collaborative
project. Selected in consultation with and evaluated by a faculty panel.
Offered Fall, Spring
Transitional Kindergarten (TKK)
TKK 501.  Dynamics of Early Childhood Development and Growth.  (3
Units)  
Focus on understanding child development and learning. Child
development includes the stages of physical, social, cognitive and
linguistic growth from birth through age eight. Observation, assessment,
culturally responsive and developmentally appropriate practices will be
included.
Offered Infrequent
TKK 502.  Critical Literacy and Social Studies for Young Children.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 505 and TKK 501 are required. Through a critical lens,
this course will address an integrated approach to the teaching and
learning of social science and literacy with specific emphasis on social
justice issues to evoke curiosity and imagination of young children that
will lead them to solve problems and take action as emergent readers.
Restricted to majors.
Offered Infrequent
TKK 503.  Mathematical and Scientific Concepts and Reasoning for
Young Children.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: TED 505 and TKK 501 are required. This course is designed
to explore developmentally appropriate constructivist methods and
materials for teaching mathematics and scientific concepts and
reasoning to young children. This course includes instructional planning,
unit development, selection and preparation of curriculum materials,
assessment procedures, and problem-solving strategies. Restricted to
majors.
Offered Infrequent
University Courses (UNV)
UNV 101.  Personal, Social and Intellectual Development.  (3 Units)  
A consideration of individual development with the goal of increasing
knowledge of self and others within the University. Topics include selfknowledge and assessment, learning to learn, career development, and
making the best use of university resources.
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 110.  Dominguez Hills Experience.  (2 Units)  
Introduction to resources, services, policies and procedures of the
University; teaching of effective listening, inter-personal communication,
term paper preparation, and other skills which will enhance and facilitate
the educational experience.
Offered Infrequent
UNV 194.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
UNV 196.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
UNV 222.  Learning How to Study.  (2 Units)  
Provides clarity regarding tasks to accomplish when studying and the
tools to do it. Covers skills ranging from mastering a concept to figuring
out your term paper topic prior to the night before it's due. Lecture and
practice format.
Offered As needed
UNV 289.  Leadership Development.  (3 Units)  
Enhance students' ability to apply leadership theories/concepts, critical/
reflective thinking, and improve student leadership on campus. Weekly
lectures combined with 30 hours of community service. Topics include
personality types, leadership styles, organizational development,
affecting change, involving organizations, and diversity.
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 294.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered As needed
UNV 295.  Selected Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
A course in a topic of special interest to both faculty and students for
which no current course exists. Topic will be announced in the Schedule
of Classes. Repeatable for credit.
Offered As needed
UNV 296.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 300.  Early Field Experience.  (2 Units)  
Prerequisite: LIVESCAN and Negative TB. Provides prospective
single subject teachers with planned, structured field experiences
in departmentalized classrooms in middle and senior high schools.
Minimum of 45 hours of observation/participation in public schools,
grades 7-12, is required. Credit/no credit grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
342 Women's Studies (WMS)
UNV 380.  Portfolio Preparation.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of 30 units in residence prior to assessment.
Supervised preparation of a Portfolio to Assess Prior Learning. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 382.  Assess Of Prior Learn.  (1-11 Units)  
Prerequisite: Completion of 30 units in residence prior to assessment.
Evaluation of Portfolio of Prior Learning. Prior learning is evaluated for
credit by faculty experts in various departments. Credit may be used as
elective units or, on approval of Department Chair, as part of requirements
for a major or a minor. CR/NC grading. Repeatable course.
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 394.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 395.  Special Topics:.  (1-3 Units)  
A course in a topic of special interest to both faculty and students for
which no current course exists. Topic will be announced in the Schedule
of Classes. Repeatable for credit. Graduate
Offered As needed
UNV 396.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 492.  Study Abroad Enrollment.  (1-15 Units)  
Offered All terms
UNV 494.  Independent Study.  (1-20 Units)  
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 495.  Special Topics.  (1-15 Units)  
Offered As needed
UNV 496.  Internship.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered As needed
UNV 600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Graduate students who have completed their course work but not their
culminating event or who have other requirements remaining for the
completion of their degree, may maintain continuous attendance by
enrolling in this course. Signature of graduate program director required.
Infrequently Offered Courses
Offered Fall, Spring
UNV 900.  Test Course.  (2 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
UNV 901.  test course.  (1 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
UNV 999S.  Wait List-No Classes Available.  (0 Units)  
Offered Infrequent
Women's Studies (WMS)
WMS 100.  Gender, Sex, the Body, & Politics: An Introduction.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the rapidly expanding body of literature related to the
gendered aspects of health and sexuality with an emphasis on women.
Offered Fall, Spring
WMS 200.  Foundations in Queer Studies.  (3 Units)  
An introduction to the field of Queer Studies by analyzing the role of
gender, race, class, ability, and nationalism in the construction of modern
lesbian, gay, bisexual, and trans (LGBT) identities, and it considers how
queerness can operate as a disruption, expansion, or refusal of these
identity categories.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 250.  Foundations in Women's Studies.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to Women's Studies. Students learn about gender
from a multicultural, multiracial feminist and global perspective.
Emphasis is on women's history; gender, culture, and nation; social
institutions; sexuality, sexism, and violence; and local and transnational
women's movements.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 295.  Special Topics in Women's Studies.  (3 Units)  
An introductory study of an issue or a concept in Women's Studies that
is of particular interest to both the faculty member and the students.
Repeatable course with different topics.
Offered As needed
WMS 310.  The Witch in Literature.  (3 Units)  
Examines representation of the witch and witchcraft in literature and
culture in different historical periods and cultures.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 311.  Comedy, Sex and Gender.  (3 Units)  
Examines representations of gender and sexuality in comedy and
humor from multicultural perspectives. Topics include feminist humor
and comedy as vehicles of social criticism and advocacy, and the
relationships of the comedic to ethnicity, race and class.
Offered As needed
WMS 314.  Feminism and Film.  (3 Units)  
Introduces issues that feminist theory poses for the analysis of film and
culture. it focuses on women's contributions to, and representations in,
film.
Offered As needed
WMS 315.  Literary Topics in Gender Studies and Sexuality Studies.  (3
Units)  
Provides comparatist perspectives on the representation of women's
roles and rights as expressed in a variety of writings from different
historical periods and cultures. Students will gain an understanding of
women's differential treatment in legal systems and social institutions
from antiquity to present.
Offered As needed
WMS 318.  Race, Class and Gender.  (3 Units)  
This cross-cultural, interdisciplinary course introduces students to
women's issues as these interface with race and class. Students will
recognize, analyze and evaluate the socio-political and economic forces
that affect women's lives through a critical examination of race, class and
gender.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 320.  Feminist Principles.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: WMS 250 is required. A primer to principles of feminist
philosophy, history, thought, methodology and current issues pertaining
to women.
Offered Fall
WMS 330.  Queer Art and Visual Culture.  (3 Units)  
Offers a reflection on key art practices and theories which develop
an understanding of queerness. Stepping away from 'queer' as an
identity marker, the readings and work offered will articulate how queer
operates as a verb to subvert or wholly turn away from the conventional
understandings of life to cultivate radical alternatives. Each week
a theoretical text is paired with a 'case study' to offer an opening
conversation on the political implications of queering art.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
2024-25 University Catalog 343
WMS 340.  Politics of Women's (Un)Paid Labor.  (3 Units)  
Focuses on women's labor participation in the family and society. Topics
include women in professional and domestic labor markets, the politics of
mothering and maternal labor, sex work, family policies, labor rights, wage
gaps, and invisible work.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 350.  Feminist Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: WMS 250 and WMS 320 required. A primer to feminist
research methods. Students will be introduced to a variety of ways in
which feminists question and approach the production of knowledge.
Offered Spring
WMS 380.  Gender and Sexuality in Popular Culture.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to contemporary US popular culture, with a focus on the
ways popular culture production, consumption and representation
reinforce and resist ideologies about gender, race, and sexual orientation.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 390.  Transnational Feminisms.  (3 Units)  
Leaning away from older models of Global "Sisterhood" which privilege a
singular western-focused model of democracy and gender, transnational
feminisms are interested in respectign difference to understand local,
historical, economic, and (post)-colonial conditions that women draw on
to articulate resistance. This course offers differences between global
feminism and transnational feminisms by moving through examples and
case studies of how transnational feminisms look on the ground and in
response to different modes of oppression.
Offered Spring
WMS 400.  Feminist Theories.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: WMS 350 required. Advanced study in feminist theory.
Course addresses major concepts and assumptions of feminist study
in order to better understand how to address societal and power
inequalities and to improve women's status globally.
Offered Fall
WMS 410.  Queer of Color Critique.  (3 Units)  
Brings Women of Color Feminisms to bear on Queer theory to understand
that people have (political or intimate) desires and attachments which
are not always legible. Familiarizes students with the cultural, political
and economic concerns of QoCC and how it interrupts socially dominant
categories of sexuality.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer
WMS 490.  Senior Capstone.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: WMS 400 required. A critical analysis and interpretation
of major feminist theories and contemporary issues in women's
studies.Special attention will be paid to different discourse communities -
academic, internet, personal - as they relate to feminism and the women's
movement, in order to help students think more deeply about being a
reader and writer of feminist scholarship. Students will be exposed to
influential and emergent feminist theories in order to produce original
research projects, papers, and/or creative works. A grade of C or better
in this course fulfills the GWAR requirement for all Biology majors and
minors
Offered Spring
WMS 494.  Independent Study.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Consent of instructor and program coordinator.
Independent study of a particular problem, issue, or readings under the
direction of a member of the Women's Studies faculty. Course is not
repeatable for credit in the Women's Studies minor.
Offered As needed
WMS 495.  Special Tpcs: Women's Studies.  (3 Units)  
An intensive study of an issue or a concept in Women's Studies that
is of particular interest to both the faculty member and the students.
Repeatable course with different topics. Three hours of seminar per week.
Offered As needed
WMS 496.  Internship in Women's Studies.  (3 Units)  
Practical application of coursework in Women's Studies through
supervised work and field experience in politics, law, art, communications,
social welfare agencies or other area as approved by the instructor and
coordinator of the program. Course is not repeatable for credit in the
Women's Studies minor.
Offered Fall, Spring


