

Computer Science (CSC)  2024-2025


CSC101.  Intro.to Computer Education.  (3 Units)  
A computer literacy course designed to familiarize the learner with a
variety of computer tools and computer concepts with emphasis on
utilizing packaged programs. This course provides an introduction to
the use of computers, common software programs and peripherals.
Students are instructed in the use of a word processor, drawing programs,
spreadsheet, database, presentation tools, internet applications and
statistical package in scientific applications.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC111.  Introduction to Computers and Basic Programming.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to computer programming with particular emphasis on small
systems through programming in the BASIC language.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC112.  Intro Computers And Basic.  (20 Units)  
Offered All terms


CSC115.  Introduction to Programming Concepts.  (3 Units)  
Introduces students to computer programming by teaching techniques
of problem solving. Students will become acquainted with decision
constructs, looping structures, and subroutine modules. Students will
learn the vocabulary of object-oriented programming.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC116.  Introduction to Computer Hardware and Tools.  (3 Units)  
Introduction to microcomputer hardware and operating systems.
Students will be required to use application software to research,
generate and prepare a semester project.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC121.  Introduction to Computer Science and Programming I.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 115 or equivalent and MAT 153 or consent of
instructor. Organization of sequential, digital machine: CPU, I/O, storage,
communications devices. Functions of operating systems: translators,
editors, peripheral control utilities. The course covers the development,
description, and analysis of elementary algorithms. It includes three
hours of lecture and two hours of activity per week.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC123.  Introduction to Computer Science and Programming II.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 121. Continuation of CSC 121. Fundamental
programming concepts using arrays, records, pointers, linked list,
trees and recursion. Good style, documentation and structure will be
emphasized. Introduction to analysis of algorithms for efficiency and
correctness.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC195.  Selected Topics in Computer Science.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
science not covered by current course offerings.
Offered As needed


CSC221.  Assembly Language and Introduction to Computer
Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121. Programming problems in assembly language.
Writing and using macros. Features of modern computer hardware and
operating systems.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC251.  C Language Programming and Unix.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121. Introduction to programming in the C language
and its use in systems programming in the UNIX operating system.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC255.  Dynamic Web Programming.  (3 Units)  
The goal of the course is to provide instruction to the design and
implementation of dynamic web applications. Topics include origins of
Internet, TCP/IP basics, Standard Generalized Markup Language SGML,
XML and XSL languages, client-side and server-side languages: Perl and
PHP, interactivity in website design, front-end interface to databases,
website access control, confidentiality, integrity, accessibility and their
applicability in developing dynamic and distributed client/server web
applications.
Offered All terms, Fall, Spring


CSC281.  Discrete Structures.  (3 Units)  
This course introduces fundamental structures and logical principles that
form the foundation of computer science. Topics will be introduced with
emphasis on applications in computer science. Students will be required
to write programs to deepen their understanding about the topics.Â
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC295.  Sel. Topics in Computer Sci.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
science not covered by current course offerings. May be used for elective
credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed


CSC300.  Software Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 123 is required. This is an advanced Java
programming course. Students are expected to have a much deeper
understanding about major aspects of Java and OOP, and significantly
enhance their programming and problem-solving ability. Several data
structure and algorithms will be introduced.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC301.  Computers And Society.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 101 or CSC 111 or CSC 115 or CSC 121 or CSC 272
or consent of instructor. Ethical, legal, psychological, economic, and
theoretical implications and limitations of the uses of digital computers.
Oral and written presentations required.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC311.  Data Structures.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 123 and CSC 281 or MAT 281. More advanced
and detailed treatment of concepts of data organization introduced
in CSC 123. Includes lists, trees, graphs and storage allocation and
collection. Applications to such areas as symbol tables, string search and
optimization.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC321.  Programming Languages.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 123. A comparative study of programming languages.
Characteristics of languages and formal description of languages.
Assignments in several languages.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 205


CSC331.  Computer Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221 and MAT 281. Structure of the modern digital
computer. Introduction to Boolean algebra and design of digital circuits.
Arithmetic, control, storage and input/output systems.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC337.  Microcomputers.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 221, CSC 331, and MAT 281. The architecture,
programming and interfacing of microcomputers. Topics include input/
output, instruction sets, subroutines, interrupts and control. In-class use
of microcomputer hardware. Repeatable course. Two hours of lecture and
three hours of laboratory per week.
Offered Infrequent


CSC341.  Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 311, CSC 331, and MAT 321. Overall structure of batch
and time-shared operating systems. Scheduling of jobs, CPU and I/O
devices. Paged and segmented memory management. I/O programming
and file handling. Synchronization of concurrent processes.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC353.  File Processing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 123 and CSC 251 are required; CSC 311 is
recommended. Characteristics of secondary storage media. Logical vs.
physical organization. Sequential, direct, and indexed access methods.
Tree structure of indices; hashing.
Offered Infrequent


CSC361.  Systems Programming.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311, CSC 331, and CSC 341. Design and construction
of systems programs such as assemblers, macro processors and linking
loaders. Introduction to software engineering.
Offered As needed


CSC371.  Finite Automata.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite(s): CSC 311 is required. Introduces the formal foundations
of computer science, the limits of computation, and the limits of efficient
computation. The goal is to provide computer science students with a
broad understanding of various models of computation and their power.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC395.  Sel Topics in Computer Science.  (1-4 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor and upper division standing in major.
Content varies. Advanced topics in computer science not covered by
current course offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental
programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed


CSC401.  Analysis Of Algorithms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Mathematical study of non-numeric computer
algorithms. Topics include combinatorial techniques, algorithm proof, and
program complexity.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC411.  Artificial Intelligence.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 311 and CSC 321. Introduction to the use of
computers to simulate intelligent behavior; includes game playing,
problem solving, use of natural languages and pattern recognition.
Offered Fall


CSC421.  Advanced Programming Languages.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC CORE. Continuation of CSC 321. Methods of formal
specification of syntax and semantics of programming languages and
special purpose language features for such areas as simulation and
systems programming.
Offered Infrequent


CSC431.  Advanced Computer Organization.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221, CSC 331, CSC 341, MAT 271, and MAT 281.
Alternate computer architectures and features of large scale systems.
Microprogramming, parallel processing, memory organization, input/
output systems, interprocessor communications and multiprocessing.
Offered Infrequent


CSC441.  Advanced Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC CORE. Theoretical study of important topics in
operating system design. Substantial individual and group programming
projects.
Offered Infrequent


CSC451.  Computer Networks.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 and MAT 281. An introduction to computer
networks including both long haul and local area networks. Topics
include network topology, network access methodology, transmission
media, protocols and applications.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC453.  Data Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Fundamental concepts in design, analysis and
implementation of computerized database systems. Database models,
user and program interfaces and database control.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC455.  WWW Design and Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 251, CSC 311 and CSC 321. An introduction to the
design, implementation and management of World Wide Web over the
Internet and Intranet networks. Topics include Internet overview, web
authoring, web programming, server setting and maintenance.
Offered Infrequent


CSC459.  Security Engineering.  (3 Units)  
The goal of the course is to provide introduction to the design,
implementation and management of systems that remain dependable
in the face of malice, error or mischance. Topics include the tools,
processes and methods needed to design, implement and test complete
systems and to adapt existing systems as their environment evolves.
Specifically, it includes cryptography, privacy, hardware tamper resistance,
firewalls, intrusion detection and prevention and security policies.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC461.  Computer Graphics I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311. Fundamental concepts of programming for
computer graphics. Graphics devices, languages and algorithms.
Substantial graphics programming projects.
Offered Spring


CSC463.  Computer Graphics II.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 461. Advanced topics in computer graphics. Interactive
graphics, animation, color and three dimensional modeling.
Offered Infrequent


CSC471.  Compiler Construction I.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 221, CSC 311 and MAT 361. Introduction to the theory
and practice of compiler construction. Overall structure of compilers.
Lexical and syntactic analysis, code generation for block structured
languages and code optimization.
Offered Infrequent


CSC481.  Software Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 301, CSC 311 and CSC 321. Introduction to software
engineering, with emphasis on software design and specification. Oral
and written presentations required.
Offered Fall, Spring
206 Computer Science (CSC)


CSC490.  Senior Seminar.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 301, CSC 311 and CSC 321. Intense, structured seminar.
Exposure to current areas of research in Computer Science. Students will
attend department colloquia; conduct research; present individual and
group projects; and, prepare a written proposal for a senior project.
Offered Infrequent


CSC492.  Senior Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 301, CSC 321 and CSC 481. Intensive study under the
guidance of a member of the Computer Science faculty which continues
and expands the research carried out in Senior Seminar. Students will
study system design and total project planning and management. A
formal written report and oral presentation are required.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC495.  Selected Topics:.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 is required. Content varies. Advanced topics in
computer science not covered by current course offerings. May be used
for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC497.  Directed Study In Computer Science.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC CORE or consent of instructor. A project in computer
science carried out on an independent study basis. Repeatable course.
Offered Infrequent


CSC498.  Directed Research.  (1-3 Units)  
Offered Infrequent


CSC500.  Research Methods.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Series of
lectures given by faculty and visiting computer scientists.
Offered Summer


CSC501.  Design and Analysis of Algorithms.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 401. Methods for the design of efficient algorithms:
divide and conquer, greedy method, dynamic programming, backtracking,
brand and bound, problem in string matching, polynomials and matrices,
graph theory, NP-problems.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CSC511.  Artificial Intelligence and Expert Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 411. Introduction to in-depth engineering approach to
the field of artificial neural networks. Topics include different types of
network architectures and applications, and their properties and behavior.
Offered Fall


CSC521.  Fundamentals and Concepts of Programming Languages.  (3
Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 321. Study of the principles that form the basis of
programming language design. Research topics in high-level languages
including : data abstraction, parameterization, scooping, generics,
exception handling, parallelism and concurrency; alternative language
designs; imperative, functional, descriptive, object-oriented and data flow;
overview of interface with support environments.
Offered Spring


CSC531.  Advanced Computer Architecture.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 331. Covering new technological developments,
including details of multiprocessor systems and specialized machines.
The main focus is on the quantitative analysis and cost-performance
tradeoffs in instruction-set, pipeline, and memory design. Description
of real systems and performance data are also presented. Topics
covered: quantitative performance measures, instruction set design,
pipeline, vector processing, memory organization, input/output, and an
introduction to parallel processing.
Offered Fall even


CSC541.  Advanced Operating Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 341. Theoretical and practical aspects of
operating systems: overview of system software, time-sharing and
multiprogramming operating systems, network operating systems and
the Internet, virtual memory management, inter-process communication
and synchronization, file organization, and case studies. Giving advanced
topics and examples, and simulation techniques used in performance
evaluation.
Offered Fall


CSC546.  Human Computer Interaction and Interface Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. Research-oriented course; in-depth analyses of
selected current topics with emphasis on problems related to computer
systems, artificial intelligence, and human computer information
interaction and interface design.
Offered Spring


CSC551.  Data Communications and Computer Networks.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 451. Topics related to the development of clientserver based application, including two-tiers and multi-tiers Client-Server
concepts and programming. Concurrency issues in the design of client
and server programs. Trade-off of different architectures and usage of
remote procedure calls. Broadcasting and multicasting.
Offered Fall odd


CSC552.  Distributed Computing and Parallel Processing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 451, CSC 401. Comprehensive introduction to the field
of parallel and distributed computing systems: Algorithms, architectures,
networks, systems, theory and applications. The distributed parallel
computation models, design and analysis of parallel algorithms will be
discussed.
Offered Infrequent


CSC553.  Advanced Database Management Systems.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 453. Provides an in-depth treatment of one or more
advanced topics in the management of information systems. The field of
information systems consists of three major components: information
systems technology, information systems development and information
systems management. Deals with the latter area. Because of the many
advances in information technology and the corresponding development
techniques, new business opportunities are constantly emerging and with
them the need to manage these applications effectively. Explores these
new application areas and the management approaches needed to make
them successful.
Offered Spring odd


CSC555.  Information Assurance and Network Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 451, CSC 401 and/or consent of instructor. Topics
related to communications and IT infrastructures, their vulnerabilities as
well as the size and complexity of security threats faced by enterprises,
development of security practices, policies, awareness and compliance
programs, and legal and regulatory issues will be examined. Fundamental
encryption algorithms and systems supported in today's IT and secure
communications networks Virtual Private Networks, Tunneling, Secure
Socket Layer, SSH, and PGP will also be examined.
Offered Spring even


CSC561.  Advanced Computer Graphics.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 461. Solid modeling Euler operators, finite element
methods. Rendering: filling, shading, ray tracing. Natural modeling: Lsystems, fractals. Image processing: filtering anti-aliasing, enhancement.
Color: physics, graphics, physiology.
Offered Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 207


CSC564.  Numerical Analysis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: MAT 361. Topics include numerical solution of partial
differential equations by finite difference and finite element algorithms.
Focus on direct and iterative methods for solving large, sparse linear
systems and related eigenvalue and vector problems. Emphasis is placed
on robust mathematical software and its interaction with computer
hardware and languages.
Offered Infrequent


CSC565.  Theory of Computation.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CSC 401 and MAT 361. Models of computation, complexity
theory, intractable problems, complete problems, recursive function
theory, incompleteness, formal theory of program semantics and
correctness, logics of programs.
Offered Infrequent


CSC581.  Advanced Software Engineering.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. This course focuses on defining software
requirements and provides an overview of advanced analysis and design
techniques that can be used to structure applications. Topics of software
requirements include interacting with end-users to determine needs
and expectations, identifying functional requirements and identifying
performance requirements. Analysis techniques include prototyping,
modeling and simulation. Design topics include design in the system
lifecycle, hardware vs. software trade-offs, subsystem definition and
design, abstraction, information hiding, modularity and reuse.
Offered Spring


CSC582.  Object-Oriented Analysis and Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 481. Object-oriented analysis and design is essential
in developing high-quality object-oriented systems. Topics will include
object-oriented classes, attributes, methods and relations to other
classes, objects, classifications and inheritance, encapsulation,
polymorphism, object-oriented analysis, design and programming.
Offered Fall


CSC583.  Software Engineering Processes.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The course focuses on the engineering of complex
systems that have a strong software component. Topics include deriving
and allocating requirements, system and software architectures, system
analysis and design, integration, interface management, configuration
management, quality, verification and validation, reliability, and risk.
Offered Fall


CSC584.  Software Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The main topics of this course address the
successful management of a software development project. This
includes planning, scheduling, tracking, cost and size estimating, risk
management, quality engineering, and process improvement. The course
is centered on the concept of a software engineering process and
includes discussion of life cycle models for software development.
Offered Spring


CSC585.  Advanced Software Quality Assurance.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 581. The relationship of software testing to quality is
examined with an emphasis on testing techniques and the role of testing
in the validation of system requirements. Topics include module and
unit testing, integration, code inspection, peer reviews, verification and
validation, statistical testing methods, preventing and detecting errors,
selecting and implementing project metrics and defining test plans and
strategies that map to system requirements. Testing principles, formal
models of testing, performance monitoring and measurement also are
examined.
Offered Fall odd


CSC590.  Master's Project.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser.
Offered on the letter-grade basis only. The equivalent of three lecture
hours a week.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC594.  Independent Study.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Individual
studies in advanced computer science and technology.
Offered Infrequent


CSC595.  Special Topics in Computer Science.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of instructor. Exposes
students to new and emerging concepts and technologies
Offered Infrequent


CSC597.  Directed Reading.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed


CSC599.  Master's Thesis.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Graduate standing and consent of the graduate adviser.
Computer research writing of thesis for a master's degree. CR/NC
grading.
Offered Fall, Spring


CSC600.  Graduate Continuation Course.  (1 Units)  
Prerequisite: Signature of graduate program coordinator required.
Graduate students, who have completed their course work but not
their thesis, project, or comprehensive examination, or who have other
requirements remaining for the completion for their degree, may attain
continuous enrollment by enrolling in this course.
Offered Fall, Spring
