Computer Technology (CTC) 2024-2025


CTC 195.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Topics in computer technology not covered by current course offerings.
May be used for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to
approval.
Offered As needed


CTC 218.  Digital Logic Design.  (3 Units)  
Provides students with a basic understanding of digital device and circuit
fundamentals. The students should be able to analyze and design both
combinational and sequential circuits after completing this course.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 228.  Introduction to Operating Systems and Networks.  (4 Units)  
Course acquaints students with basic networking concepts such as TCP/
IP, local/wide area networking as well as emerging industry topics such
as Radio Frequency Identification (RFID), Global Information Systems
(GIS), Networked Attached Storage (NAS), and WiMAX.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 295.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Topics in computer technology not covered by current course offerings.
May be used for elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to
approval.
Offered As needed


CTC 305.  Introduction to Game and Mobile Programming.  (3 Units)  
This course teaches students through lectures, discussions,
demonstrations, and classroom labs. Students learn the knowledge,
skills, and abilities necessary to create games in the C# programming
language using the Microsoft XNA framework and Silver light.
Offered Fall
208 Computer Technology (CTC)


CTC 310.  Software Project Management.  (3 Units)  
Course will focus on the critical aspects of project management,
including software project management concepts and case studies, and
discuss software project management roadmap, and especially address
linear, incremental, iterative, adaptive and extreme effective software
project management from the perspectives of project scoping, planning,
launching, monitoring, controlling and closing phases.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 316.  Operating Systems and Networks Support.  (3 Units)  
Course provides an introduction to OS and networking support. Topics
include user engineering, risk management, mission assurance, software
process management, enterprise management tools and processes,
disaster recovery, business continuity and information life cycle
management.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 328.  Computer Forensics and Investigation.  (4 Units)  
Course presents methods to properly conduct a computer forensics
investigation, beginning with a discussion of ethics while mapping to
the objectives of the International Association of Computer Investigative
Specialists (IACIS) certification.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 362.  Communication Systems Security.  (3 Units)  
Course provides the foundation for understanding the key issues
associated with protecting information assets, determining the levels of
protection and response to security incidents, and designing a consistent,
reasonable information security system, with appropriate intrusion
detection and reporting features.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 385.  Introduction to Programming.  (3 Units)  
Introduces computing practice first, and then the concept of
programming using block-based and visual (drag-and-drop) programming
language such as Scratch. Students will also be exposed to pseudocode
and algorithm design.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 386.  Computational Thinking and Programming.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 385 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
computational thinking and problem-solving frameworks first, and then
uses Python to teach programming concepts and problem-solving skills.
Ethics in computing is also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 387.  Computer Networks, Communication Devices and Methods.  (4
Units)  
Prerequisites: CTC 386 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
computer system, network and communication devices first, and then
introduces how to identify hardware and software failures, and use
tools to perform diagnosis. Social and legal issues in computing, and
pedagogy in computer science are also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 389.  Data Structures and Software Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 387 is required. Restricted to majors. Introduces
different data structures and algorithm design principles first, followed
by different software design models. Advanced Python programming
techniques are also discussed.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 395.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced topics in computer technology not covered by current course
offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental programs.
Subject to approval.
Offered As needed


CTC 399.  IT Practicum.  (3 Units)  
The technology internship program allows students to gain hands on
experience in a technology environment by spending one semester as
an intern in the Information Technology Department at CSUDH. The
Internship program provides students with the opportunity to gain
technical experience related to their studies, and to prepare for future
career opportunities. CR/NC grading
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 405.  Advanced Game Development.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: Prerequisites: CTC 305 or CSC 123 Students learn the
advanced knowledge in game development including Skills, and the
abilities necessary to create #D games on multiple platforms. The course
includes lectures, discussions, demonstrations, and classroom labs.
Offered Spring


CTC 428.  Operating Systems Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisites: CTC 316 is required. Course takes an in depth look at
operating system security concepts and techniques. It examines
theoretical concepts that make the world of security unique. Also,
this course will adopt a practical hands-on approach when examining
operating system security techniques.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 435.  Fundamentals of Information Technology.  (2 Units)  
This course focuses on the introduction to Python programming
language, handling data, database, operating systems, and network and
security. Students are expected to gain significant theoretical knowledge
of information technology, and know how to write Python programs.
Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 436.  Fundamentals of Networking and Hardware.  (2 Units)  
This course focuses on the introduction of computer hardware systems,
computer network, and wireless networking. Students who enroll
and complete this course are expected to gain significant theoretical
knowledge and hands-on experience of computer hardware and
networking. Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 437.  Fundamentals of Information Security.  (2 Units)  
Introduces students to security, network monitoring and access control,
malicious activity detection, cryptography and security function.
Students who enroll and complete the course are expected to gain
significant theoretical knowledge and hands-on experience of information
security. Restricted to students in the major.
Offered Fall, Spring, Summer


CTC 452.  Network Security and Hacking Prevention.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 or consent of instructor is required. Course
takes an in depth look at network defense concepts and techniques. It
examines theoretical concepts that make the world of networking unique.
This course also adopts a practical hands-on approach when examining
network defense techniques and strategies.
Offered Fall, Spring
2024-25 University Catalog 209


CTC 454.  Wireless Security & Forensics.  (3 Units)  
Examines fundamental topics in wireless technology in wireless
technology, such as planning, designing, installing, securing, using tools,
and forensics. Students will also examine the maintenance, security, and
business applications for wireless Local Area Networks.
Offered Spring


CTC 456.  Enterprise System Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 is required. Students learn to identify and fix
enterprise level network vulnerabilities through the use of existing
defense tools. Students also learn the essential skills and techniques
needed to develop enterprise level network security skills to protect
enterprise's information.
Offered Spring


CTC 458.  Network Security Through Penetration Testing.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CTC 228 is required. Students learn how to determine the
feasibility of a particular set of attack vectors and identify higher-risk
vulnerabilities. students learn through performing penetration tests
against the setup environment using existing tools, techniques, and
programming languages.
Offered Fall


CTC 492.  Senior Project.  (3 Units)  
Intensive study under guidance of a member of the Computer Science
Department to complete a project from start to end. Students will study
system design and total project planning and management. A formal
written report and oral presentation will be required.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 495.  Special Topics.  (1-3 Units)  
Advanced topics in computer technology not covered by current course
offerings. May be used for elective credit in departmental programs.
Subject to approval.
Offered Fall, Spring


CTC 496.  Internship in Computer Technology.  (3 Units)  
Offered As needed


CTC 497.  Directed Studies.  (3 Units)  
Software Project Management (CTC 310)
Offered As needed
