Information Technology (ITC) 2024-2025


ITC 101.  Introduction to Information Technology.  (3 Units)  
Designed to introduce the fundamentals of information technology.
This includes, introduction to a variety of computer tools and computer
concepts with an emphasis on information technology
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 251.  System Programming in C and Unix.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 121 is required. Provides a substantial exposure to the
C programming language and the Unix programming environment for
students with some prior programming experience but minimal exposure
to C.
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 300.  Security in a Digital Society.  (3 Units)  
This course provides students with an understanding of what is involved
in the journey of positioning the computer, security, privacy, internet, and
cloud as a valuable service provide to the business and personal life of
the digital society.
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 310.  IT Project Management.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 301 is required. Aims to provide students with the basic
skills, knowledge and competence to effectively understand and manage
information technology projects. This course prepares students to gain a
practical and theoretical foundation for managing IT projects.
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 395.  Selected Topics in Information Technology.  (1-3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of Instructor. Content varies. Topics in computer
technology not covered by current course offerings. May be used for
elective credit in departmental programs. Subject to approval.
Offered As needed


ITC 399.  IT Practicum.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: Consent of instructor is required. The information
technology internship program allows students to gain hands-on
experience in a technology environment by spending one semester
as an intern in the Information Technology Division or a related area.
The internship program provides students with the opportunity to gain
technical experience related to their studies and to prepare them for
future career opportunities in the field. CR/NC grading only.
Offered Fall, Spring
250 Interdisciplinary Studies (IDS)


ITC 453.  Database Management Systems (DBMS).  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 is required. Covers the design methodology
process for databases and how to verify its structural correctness.
Students will learn how to implement databases and applications
software, primarily in the relational model. This is through using querying
languages, primarily SQL, and other database supporting software;
and applying the theory behind various database models and query
languages. It also includes implementing security and integrity policies
relating to databases working in group settings during design.
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 459.  IT Security.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: CSC 311 or consent of instructor is required. Information
Technology Security aims at securing systems that remain dependable
in the face of malice, error or mischance. This course covers a number of
principles, methods, tools and good practices to secure systems.
Offered Fall, Spring


ITC 492.  Senior Design.  (3 Units)  
Prerequisite: ITC 453 is required. Intensive study under the guidance
of a member of the Information Technology (IT) faculty to complete a
research project from start to end. Students will study system design and
total project planning and management. A formal written report and oral
presentation will be required.
Offered Fall, Spring
